The moon shone down on Gensokyo in early summer, bathing the land in a cool, white light. As moonlight is much brighter than sunlight to youkai, it illuminated things that they were normally unable to see.

On nights like this, the youkai stalk the night paths illuminated by the moon, lying in wait for humans to attack. Youkai can see perfectly by the light of the moon, but humans' eyes are blinded by the darkness. People can't see the path well in the dark, and they can't easily tell if what's standing before them is human, youkai or just a stone.

As a result, most humans don't travel at night. And the same as always, most humans were shut tight in their homes, so nobody noticed the mysterious object that fell from the sky at night.

Just what was this thing that fell from the sky? At a distance of ten fathoms (about 20 yards) or more, it would appear to be something fluttering like a piece of cloth, almost like a certain youkai from a story for children, flying freely through the night sky and eventually disappearing over the shrine.

Today is the day of the Monthly Lunar Festival. This festival is held on the night when the Earth and the Moon are closest during the full moon at the time. The festival uses round objects, such as dumplings, as fake full moons in a symbolic attempt to keep the full moon far away. If the moon is far away, then the moon's emissaries will stay away, as well. Of course, I was the one who first thought up this festival.

Now, the rabbits should be in the garden, pounding rice for the dumplings. The dumplings they make have various sorts of medicine mixed into them, according to my directions. This medicine is significant for two reasons. One is that, while we say that the rabbit on the moon pounds rice cakes, they're really making medicine, and the other is it's likely that the rabbits will sneak some of the dumplings into their mouth as they make them. Since the dumplings have medicine in them to make the rabbits more excited, the festival will be all the more lively if they sneak some to eat, as I expect they will.

I first saw the glimmering cloth in the eastern sky while listening to the rabbits' song and gazing at the sky. The cloth shone with a pale light. As the sage of the moon, Eirin Yagokoro, I knew. I knew that the light shone on the same wavelength as the moonlight. That it was, in fact, a lunar veil.

"...Excuse me. Master, the festival has ended with no problems."

One of the rabbits entered my room. Named Reisen Udongein Inaba, she's the moon rabbit who calls me her master. Her real name is just Reisen, but since she lives on Earth now, I gave her a name written in the fashion used by those born on Earth.

She originally fled the Lunar War, but I hid the fact that she stumbled upon this house by accident. All of the moon rabbits, including her, have the ability to communicate with each other across long distances. I believed that by hiding her existence here, I could obtain information about the lunar capital.

She has been, indeed, a great help to me. She's done a great deal to help ensure that we can continue to live safely on Earth like this.

"That was awfully quick, Reisen. I hope you're not cutting corners because it's been so calm lately."

"Of course not. We've taken great care, as usual, to make sure the festival ended smoothly. The earth rabbits were happy to eat their fill of dumplings."

"Well, good work. Oh, where is that other girl?"

Reisen's expression darkened a bit on hearing my question.

"You mean Tewi? Tewi's... off playing somewhere, same as ever. It's easier for her to disappear on festival days."

The princess of the moon, Kaguya, lived in Gensokyo, hiding for over a thousand years so that others wouldn't find her.

Why did she have to spend those years in hiding? It's because of the grave sin she committed that condemned her to a life of fleeing the emissaries of the moon. If humans knew about her, it would be easy for the moon to find her. That's what we believed.

As one of Princess Kaguya's few allies, I've always been by her side to support her with my knowledge. Fortunately, in Gensokyo there is a place called the Bamboo Forest of the Lost, where even youkai find it easy to become lost. Deep within that forest I prepared a special mansion for the princess where no one could easily come across it. That is this place, Eientei.

Eientei is an unusual structure. As long as humans don't find it, its history does not move forward. It's the product of the princess' control over eternity and my own knowledge. That the mansion's history never moves forward means that nothing that occurs here will become recorded history.

For a long time I lived together with the princess in a mansion where history had been stopped for all eternity. For the first few hundred years, we led our lives in secrecy and paid little heed to the passage of time, but... one day, a lone youkai rabbit in white appeared, and everything changed.

I still don't know how that rabbit found us out, but it was the first event in Eientei's history since its establishment.

The rabbit told us that she was in charge of the Bamboo Forest of the Lost, and it seemed she'd always known we had been living there. Sensing my alarm, she said she had no intention of becoming our enemies, but would help ensure that no humans would ever approach if we would bestow our knowledge on the rabbits.

That youkai rabbit was named Tewi Inaba, and now lives in Eientei.

"Yes, that girl's always been something of a free spirit."

"It's such a pain. She just left, even though the cleanup from the festival is nowhere near finished. And, of course, all the other earth rabbits slipped away with her, so now I have to do all the cleaning up. What has she learned from you, anyway, if she can't even stay around to clean up?"

After being so abusive, Reisen remembered that Tewi had been at Eientei for much longer than she had. Looking uneasy, she added "It's not that I criticise the education you gave her, Master."

"Well, in any case, please go look for her afterward."

"Okay, but... this has been on my mind for a while but aren't you a little too easy on her, Master? It would probably do her good for you to scold her once in a while. She won't listen to me, but I think she'd listen to you."

"Oh ho. Unfortunately, she won't listen to me, either."

"What, really? Why do we keep taking care of her, then?"

It was clear that Tewi wasn't just a normal youkai rabbit. All the earth rabbits listened to everything she said. Though there was nothing at all dignified in her appearance, the idea of her being able to control a great number of rabbits at will brings to mind the image of a hermit who has achieved enlightenment.

"The earth rabbits only listen to Tewi. Do you know what that means?"

"That Tewi is the most powerful of the earth rabbits?"

"Without Tewi, we wouldn't be able to use them at all, which would be a problem."

Something troubling occurred to me as we had this conversation. That ray of light was without a doubt a lunar veil. The moon wouldn't send someone all by themselves, but... I don't understand the entire situation. I'm sure Tewi saw her, too, and that's why she disappeared.

"Anyway, nothing strange happened during the festival, did it? Say, around the shrine, for example."

"Around the shrine? No... Is something wrong?"

"Maybe. Hopefully it's nothing."

The lunar veil is one of several vehicles that allow one to travel between the Earth and the full moon. It's often confused with the divine robes of a heavenly maiden, but the latter refers to articles of clothing constructed from cloth with negative mass, while the lunar veil is a massless garment with moonlight woven into the fabric. They are, of course, completely different things.

Since the lunar veil has no mass, it's implausible that it would fall to Earth by itself even in the absence of a downward air current. The fact that it was falling therefore indicates that somebody was using it. I still didn't know who that person was, or whether they be friend or foe. What was certain is that I had no desire to be discovered by the moon's emissaries and forced into a fugitive's lifestyle again.

Eientei's frozen history had only begun moving again since that incident three or four years ago. But once it started, there was no going back.

Once our history began to move again, we began to live our lives yearning for the way things had been, just like humans. Yet, we had no wish to return to the way things had been when our history had stopped.

"Master? What's on your mind? I still have to clean up from the festival, so I should go back for now. If Tewi doesn't come back in a while, I'll go out to look for her."

"Ah, yes. Please do."

And so Reisen left the room.

Perhaps it was because I'd seen the lunar veil earlier, but I was reminded of a time long, long ago when I lived in the lunar capital as the sage of the moon. Then, I acted as the leader of a group of emissaries that traveled between the earth and the moon. I also had been the teacher of two princess sisters since they were very young - princesses other than Princess Kaguya, with whom I now live.

The two princesses were my distant relatives. To put it in human terms, one was the wife of a grandnephew of mine, while the other was the wife of their son[1]. They were quite distant relations, but I served as a tutor of sorts to both of them. The older sister was blessed with natural good fortune and never had to deal with any hardship, while the younger sister was exceedingly sharp and seemed to absorb everything I said. It was commonly understood that one day I'd leave the emissaries of the moon in their hands.

But after Princess Kaguya's great crime and subsequent exile to Earth, the moon changed enormously.

Well, that's not quite accurate. I was the perpetrator of that crime. I was confident in my knowledge. And, because I was too confident, I committed a minor error.

That minor error was to give the Hourai Elixir, that is, the elixir of immortality and eternal youth, to Princess Kaguya.

I made the forbidden concoction, and Princess Kaguya drank it to become immortal. And so, she was expelled from the lunar capital.

I regretted my actions, and as a result, when it came time to bring Kaguya back to the moon, I deceived the moon's emissaries and rescued Kaguya, and together we hid on Earth.

Those who use the Hourai Elixir take on the same taint as humans. I knew that even if Kaguya could return to the lunar capital, she couldn't live a normal life. I decided that in order to help her live an easier life, I would prepare a place where she could live as a human. I thought I could atone for my sin like that.

Incidentally, the day before I left for the Earth in my capacity as an emissary of the moon to retrieve Kaguya, I left the service of the lunar emissaries in the hands of the two sisters I'd been tutoring. A thousand years have passed since then, but it wouldn't surprise me to learn that they're still angry over my sudden departure so long ago.

"Excuse me, Master!"

Reisen burst into the room.

"What's wrong? You're awfully flustered."

"No, it's nothing that important. We have a visitor. She's flustered, too, so I guess it rubbed off on me."

"A visitor, at this hour? Is it an emergency patient?"

"No, it's that troublesome shrine maiden again. It was like that last time, wasn't it? She suddenly appeared in the middle of the night... "

"Ah, well," I said as we left the room. The lunar veil had appeared in the eastern sky, and the shrine is in the same direction. I felt ill at ease.

The imposing figure of a human girl with her arms akimbo awaited us in the entryway. She was the shrine maiden of the Hakurei Shrine that lay on the eastern edge of Gensokyo.

"Finally. There you are, alien. One of your crew is hurt and holed up in my shrine! Do something about it."

No matter where she goes, this shrine maiden seems to start conversations with angry words. Emotional outbursts are no way to start meaningful conversation, but humans don't seem to understand this.

"One of our crew, hurt?"

"That's right, I've got an injured youkai rabbit at my place. Go take her back, or something."

"Wait a moment, Reisen, I thought you said the festival ended without incident?"

"Uh, yes, that's right, not a single person was hurt," Reisen answered.

"Hmm, perhaps she's talking about her, then?"

As soon as I'd said that, a loud voice rang out from behind Reimu as if in reply.

"I don't know about anyone getting hurt. I've been listening to your conversation, but as far as I know none of the rabbits are missing." Only the top half of Tewi's body could be seen poking out of the greenery behind Reimu. It looked like even Reimu hadn't realized she'd been there.

This wasn't the first time Tewi had pulled this stunt. She'd be beside you before you know it, and she'd disappear just as quickly. Still, she'd always be around when you really needed her.

"Oh, Tewi! Where have you been wandering around? Well, I guess I haven't started looking for you yet." Reisen began complaining again, but Tewi was in no mind to pay any attention to her.

"*Yawn* Well, the rabbits are always so excited for some reason when the festival is over, but I thought I'd try to walk it off."

Tewi put her hand on the back of her head as she emphasised "for some reason". She probably knew about the medicine I put in the dumplings to make the rabbits more excitable.

"Well, I'm pretty tired. I'm going to go rest inside." With that, she stepped into the entryway and made as if to head into the house. I took the opportunity to ask about what had been bothering me before.

"Just a moment. Tewi, did you see anything interesting during the festival tonight, in the east near the shrine?"

Tewi stopped to consider that for a moment. "...Ama-no-Iwato Wake-no-Mikoto. I saw a god I haven't seen in a really long time," she said, and made her way into the mansion proper.

Since she'd been interrupted, I lead Reimu into the parlor and asked Reisen to put on some tea.

"She may say she doesn't know anything about it, but it's a fact that there's an injured youkai rabbit sleeping in my shrine!"

"Well. There aren't any youkai rabbits that Tewi doesn't know, so if she says nobody got hurt, I think she's probably right..."

"Would it be so strange to think that one youkai rabbit nobody knows could show up? Youkai always turn up like maggots, y'know."

That's cannot possibly be true. It's much harder for a new youkai to be born than it is for a human.

"Did this youkai rabbit say anything?"

"She's just been moaning so far. Hmm, she did have some sort of long robe..."

The youkai rabbit Reimu spoke of had almost certainly come down from the moon. It was very likely that she was the one I'd seen using the lunar veil earlier.

I had misgivings about showing a rabbit from the moon where we were living now. It was largely due to Reisen's remarks earlier, how "There seems to be a really big disturbance beginning among the lunarians in the capital." If I were flushed out into the open now, I'd probably be used by one side or another to increase their influence. I had no intention of becoming wrapped up in any sort of conflict.

"Hmm, I'd advise you to be careful around that youkai rabbit. I think you're being tricked by a fox spirit or a tanuki."

"What's that?"

"It's true that Tewi knows all the youkai rabbits. If Tewi says none of them were hurt, the youkai rabbit at the shrine must be a fake."

"I-I see, that might be true. If all the youkai rabbits are fine, then that might be true. She didn't look familiar at all..."

"If she's a fake, then her wounds are probably fake, too. She might be eating you out of house and home as we speak. If you don't hurry, she'll be gone before you make it back."

"!! Y-You're right. I have to hurry back!"

Reimu got up and left with an agitated look on her face.

"The tea's ready- huh?"

By the time Reisen had returned from preparing the tea, the shrine maiden had already vanished into the night.

"Master, had you already finished talking to the shrine maiden?"

"Yes. When I told her it was probably a fox spirit or a tanuki, she left for home in a hurry."

A dubious expression appeared on Reisen's face.

"A fox or a tanuki... Why did you lie to her like that? If that's what happened, they probably would have taken the form of a human. What would they accomplish by pretending to be a youkai rabbit?"

"Reisen. Don't be too shocked, but listen to what I have to say."

"Okay."

"The youkai rabbit at the shrine is probably a moon rabbit, like you."

"What!? How do you know?"

"I didn't tell you before, but during the festival, I saw someone come down to Earth using a lunar veil close to the shrine."

"!?"

Reisen had used a lunar veil when she fled the moon those years ago. Her lunar veil is still at Eientei, but as she has no intention to return, it's kept sealed away.

There are many ways to travel between Earth and the moon, but as the lunar veil is the most primitive, it's fairly time-consuming. It's a method that's primarily used by the moon rabbits.

"I don't know why she's decided to come here, so I don't want to let her know about Eientei. That's why I chased away that shrine maiden with those lies."

"You mean, a moon rabbit is... at the shrine, now?"

Maybe it was one of Reisen's acquaintances. Even so, bringing her into the fold so quickly would be dangerous. Nobody can say what might happen. I was a fugitive on the run from the emissaries of the moon, and Reisen had fled the moon during the Lunar War. Basically, neither of us wanted to be found.

"I-I wonder what happened. What we should do. I wonder if I'd be punished, too...?"

Reisen had forgotten to set down the tea service earlier, and I could see it trembling in her hands.

"Reisen. There's nothing for you to be afraid of. Just do as I say, and nothing will happen to Eientei, I'm sure of it."

"B-But first, what should we do?'

"First, I want you to set the tea down here and drink it slowly."

Reisen's smile returned, and she slowly sipped some tea. Once she'd regained her composure, her question of "What should we do?" returned as well.

"First, you should ask the rabbits on the moon and try to get some information."

"Okay!"

"You said earlier that some new force is trying to exert itself on the moon. I'd like you to find out anything you can about that force, or who's behind it."

"That's an easy request. Still, the information's only as good as the rabbits it comes from."

Rabbits love lies, gossip and rumors, so it's hard to take much stock in what they might say. Still, there's no smoke without fire, and there's usually a kernel of truth at the heart of any rumor.

"But, you absolutely must not talk to the rabbit at the shrine. Even if she tries to talk to you."

"But, why?"

"Because that will just start more rumors. Make sure you do as I say. Who knows what will happen if you don't."

Reisen left the room and started speaking while facing the full moon. This method seems doubtful to the uninitiated, but this is how the rabbits can speak to each other over long distances. I watched her and planned our next move.

Just what could this new power trying to gain control of the moon be?

If it were an influence from the humans of the outside world, like in the last Lunar War, it wouldn't be a problem. Long ago, the humans had made it to the moon's surface and claimed it as their own by planting a flag. They were probably impressed by their own science and thought the moon really was theirs.

But, if you know where to look, the moon's technological prowess was far beyond that of the Earth's. The humans had spoken of building a base on the moon, but in the end they ran back home before ever deciding on a place or even acquiring the means to do such a thing. It was a terrible defeat for the humans.

The humans' lunar landings were reported as a great success in the outside world, but their failures were not. The humans kept losing after their first landing, so eventually they stopped returning to the moon. And we, who'd remained in contact with the moon, knew how every time they tried to establish a base, they'd failed.

Humans rarely seem to learn. In fact, it's more likely they're moving backwards. Even if the humans decided to launch another expedition, it wouldn't create much of a stir in the lunar capital.

However, it seems that it's not a problem with humans this time. I have a feeling that some sort of internal affair may have sprung up.

"Um... Eirin. It's noisy tonight, isn't it? I wonder what's happening?"

A soft voice spoke out unexpectedly behind me. It was Kaguya Houraisan, princess of the moon, and the mistress of Eientei.

"Kaguya... it seems something may have happened all of a sudden in the lunar capital."

"Hm. So, that was a lunar veil earlier, after all."

"Ah, so you saw it, too?"

"I did, but I couldn't tell what it was, so I didn't think much of it. It was very beautiful, though."

Kaguya had a very laid-back personality for a fugitive. This hadn't always been the case... perhaps she'd just led a peaceful life for too long.

"It seems that a wounded youkai rabbit was the one using the veil. She's at the shrine, now."

"Hmm, a lone youkai rabbit... It seems like that's happened before, a long time ago."

"A long time ago? Oh, you mean Reisen."

"We were both very suspicious that time, too. But in the end, it turned out to be no problem at all."

It was a full moon, like tonight, on the night Reisen first came to this manor over thirty years ago. When Tewi, who watched over the forest, told us an intruder from the moon had appeared, we spent a long time worrying over whether to meet her, or what else we might do.

"Eirin, we were worried that time, as well, but we were better off for having met her. Reisen is truly our ally. So, why don't we go meet this moon rabbit, too?"

"Kaguya, you don't seem to be fully aware of your position as a fugitive. I don't think you'd be able to get off easily if we were found by the moon's emissaries. There's nothing wrong with a little caution."

Kaguya simply replied, "Eirin, you love to worry," and began to drink some tea.

"Well, why did you decide to meet with Reisen, then?" She asked presently.

"Because I wanted to know what was happening on the moon. Moon rabbits have that special ability, after all."

"Didn't you think about what might happen if she decided to turn us over to the emissaries of the moon?"

Of course, I did. In fact, that is the reason why I'm being so cautious now.

"If she'd decided to turn against me, then a single rabbit wouldn't be too much for me to... "

"How cold."

I realized that Reisen had disappeared from outside the window. She must have finished her conference with the moon.

"Excuse me. Oh, Princess Kaguya is here, too."

"Ah, Reisen. Have you finished your conference with the moon?"

"Yes. I've found out something important." Reisen stole a glance towards Kaguya.

"Ummm... perhaps I should come back later?"

"Please, go on. Kaguya knows most of what's going on, after all."

"I see. Well, I'll start with the current state of affairs in the capital. Basically, there's a big uproar over the discovery of traces of invaders from the Earth."

"Invaders from the Earth?" I'd thought this was surely some sort of internal squabble, but... it seems to be the work of the humans from outside again.

According to Reisen, there seems to have been another invasion from the Earth. The invader's objective appears to have been to occupy the lunar capital.

"Which is all well and good, but the next part is the real problem."

"Now, please don't make assumptions like that."

"There's a rumor that some of the moon rabbits are helping the invaders, and the rabbits are being unfairly put on trial, one after another."

"How terrible... It's like some sort of witch hunt," Kaguya said as she drank her tea.

I could see where this conversation was going. If I was right, Reisen knew the gravity of what she was saying, too.

"And they're all talking about me like I'm some sort of spy! All because of my connection to Earth."

Just as I'd thought. Well, not like there's any helping it. Reisen did originally betray the moon to come here, and she still talks to the other rabbits fairly often.

"I see. I think I know who that rabbit in the shrine is, now."

"What? How do you know that?"

"Well, she's either run away because she was wrongly accused of being an anti-Lunarian spy, or she really is one. Which might make it worth our while to try to meet her..."

"Oh, right, one more thing... The invaders are supposed to be..."

Reisen was acting a little odd. Naturally, I could imagine what she was about to say.

"No need to say it, Reisen. Of course, the invaders are myself and Kaguya, right? If Reisen is the spy, of course we'd be the masterminds."

The sound of the wind through the bamboo forest was like that of the swelling of waves at sea.

Kaguya remained speechless. Well, of course, Kaguya had likely presumed optimistically that the people of the moon would be able to accept her again soon. Even if that assumption was naive, it's certainly not unnatural to experience some despair after being hit with such unwarranted suspicions. Just the notion of going back into hiding from humans and moving from place to place would be distressing.

Reisen, now visibly agitated, implored of me:

"Master! What should we do?"

"Didn't I tell you before? If you do as I tell you, there will be nothing to worry about. I've accounted for something like this in my plans."

It wasn't just a lie to calm her down. I'd imagined a day like this might come, that one day someone might appear on the moon who wished to try to use us for their own ambitions.

"First, gather information. Find out if there really are any invaders, and if so, who they are. We should stay hidden until we know that much."

"But, but what if an assassin comes from the moon..."

"They won't be able to find this place. Tewi will make sure of that. Besides, I have my own allies among the emissaries of the moon."

Reisen looked surprised. "Allies...?"

"Yes. She's probably their leader by now."

Though, to be honest, I was a bit worried about whether she'd really turn out to be an ally.

I hadn't met either of those two princesses since the day we'd parted over a thousand years ago. Still, I'd expected they'd be willing to listen to what their old tutor would have to say. The younger one had been particularly sharp, and I really had no choice but to depend on them.

"Well, that's reassuring, then."

"But, unlike you, Reisen, we have no way to keep in contact. I wouldn't mind having you relay messages for us, but it would lend credence to the theory that you're a spy."

Reisen's expression became serious.

"That's okay. Some people already think I'm a spy, so I don't care if more people do."

"You may not care, but we do."

"Then... what should we do?"

"We'll ask the rabbit at the shrine about what's going on. It will be best for us if she decides to cooperate."

Reisen clapped her hands and exclaimed, "Oh, I forgot about her."

"That rabbit has a lunar veil, so she can go back to the moon. I'll have her deliver a letter for me."

I wrote a letter.

As proof that it really was from Eirin Yagokoro, I opened with reminiscences about the princess' youth.

As I wrote, I became afraid that somebody might read it or alter it en route, so I affixed a quantum seal. A quantum seal is a special type of seal that uses the state of the subatomic particles inside the letter to keep track of how many people have read it. This device was an invention of mine, and since I'm still the only person who can make one, it also served as proof that I wrote the letter. I set two or three other devices to it as well, and finally sealed it with medicinal herbs.

Unfortunately, I can't expect a response to this letter. Officially, the moon's emissaries are charged with my arrest. Writing a response to this letter would be a dangerous thing for the princesses to attempt.

The full moon dipped below the tops of the highest bamboo trees, and the eastern sky began to glow with a faint light. Once day broke I would head for the shrine.

Thinking upon how I'd been dragged into another lunar war, I vowed to catch the culprit who was trying to use us to their own ends by my own hand.

The bamboo forest was enveloped in a deep fog, and a human lost in it would be fooled into believing that it stretched endlessly in all directions. The wild bamboo doesn't form any paths, the ground gently rises and falls in hills and there aren't any proper landmarks. Even if you try to walk straight ahead, at some point you end up back at the same place. Such qualities has given it the name the Bamboo Forest of the Lost.

In the Bamboo Forest of the Lost lies my residence, Eientei. I've lived here for quite a while, but time has only begun to move for me since that incident occurred. Since the people of Earth attacked us two or three years ago, I've lifted the spell of eternity over Eientei.

I did this because I was so fiercely jealous when I saw the cooperation between the humans and the youkai. I felt so foolish for living hidden in fear of the moon for a thousand years.

The spell of eternity is a spell that halts the progress of history, denying any sort of change to preserve purity.

Living things stop growing, food never spoils, fragile things don't break even if dropped and spilt milk returns to its glass. In my self-awareness as a Lunarian, I was afraid of the impurity of the Earth, and cast this spell over everything in the manor, but when faced with the charms of the Earth, I undid it myself.

As a result, Eientei too was enveloped by the impurity of the Earth. Food rotted if you didn't eat it quickly, living things began to age naturally and you had to make sure to carry valuable vases with care. But, in return, our restless days of living in hiding from the moon's emissaries became cheerful and enjoyable.

And so Eientei, and those of us living there, became a part of Earth. We can never return to the moon, but I have no regrets.

There is a particularly odd bonsai plant in Eientei. Its coral-like branches bore no fruit or flower, and at a glance it looked as if it could only be dead.

But I know that this bonsai will some day blossom and bear splendid fruit. I also knew that it wouldn't flower unless certain conditions were met. However, those conditions were beginning to take shape.

Tonight is the night of the harvest moon. We'd intended to hold our monthly lunar festival, but due to the inclement weather I decided to go to Eirin's room to hear her plans for the evening.

"It looks like we won't be able to see the harvest moon this year due to the rain."

I said this as if I were disappoined, but in truth I was a bit relieved. Though I used to fear the nights when the harvest moon shone down brightly, in the past two or three years I've come to enjoy watching the full moon. This change is a bit frightening. But more than that, it was more relieving not to have to worry about being seen by the moon.

"It's best if the full moon is hidden behind the clouds, anyway."

A series of light rain showers had been falling off and on lately, making it feel like we'd entered the autumn rainy season. It felt like there hadn't been very many sunny days this autumn. Today had been no exception, and small showers had been falling off and on since the morning.

"Oh, Eirin? Maybe we should tell the Inabas to be careful not to let themselves catch a chill during today's festival."

"No, no, Kaguya, I've already told them we'll hold the festival indoors if the rain worsens. I'm sure they wouldn't want to make dumplings in the rain."

"That's true, they wouldn't want to eat dumplings that were made in the rain."

I can't help thinking Eirin's been acting more kindly towards the rabbits lately. Long ago, Eirin treated all of the Earth's creatures - not just the rabbits - as nothing more than her hands and feet. Even in the lunar capital the Lunarians saw the rabbits as nothing more than tools, so I suppose it's no surprise. Lunarians are of such a higher class than the people of Earth it's not an exaggeration to say they're in a different dimension entirely.

I suppose at some point Eirin began to start seeing us Lunarians and the creatures of Earth more as equals. This was probably due to having lived in Gensokyo, where youkai and humans lived together as equals.

That's not a bad thing, though. It's more comfortable to me than being treated as special. Since Eirin and I are the only two Lunarians in Gensokyo, believing us as being superior to the people of Earth would only lead to isolation, and she would have too many tools if that's all she saw the Earth people as.

I don't want to dwell much on what's happened long ago, but I've never been seen as equal to anyone on Earth. Even when I was exiled to the Earth after committing the crime of drinking the Hourai Elixir, not a single person treated me as a normal human being.

As a matter of fact, when I first came down to Earth after my exile, it was in a bamboo forest under thick fog, just like this one. I remember how the old couple that found me were especially careful when they picked me up.

It's only natural. I was found inside a glowing bamboo shoot in the forest, too small to be thought of as a human being, so I wouldn't be surprised if I were taken as some sort of youkai. I wonder why the old couple took me home and cared for me in an age where humans were often caught and eaten by youkai.

I believe the reason why the old couple took such good care of me is that they were periodically rewarded by the moon for their foster care. I got the impression that the people of the moon would leave gold in glowing shoots of bamboo like the one I was found in as a reward for their care. So, they let me live with them because they believed they would become rich. That's why they looked so closely after me and never allowed me to leave the house. They didn't want another household to snatch up their key to wealth.

In addition, I stood out on Earth. I didn't do anything particularly unusual, but rumors spread, and before long a great number of people had come to see me. I tried to avoid becoming the center of attention on Earth, and before long feelings of love and gratitude began to emerge towards the old couple in their efforts to help shelter me.

As I lived out my days in that fashion, I began to see Earth as a more charming place than the lunar capital. I never used my eternity magic during that time, so I think I was probably weakened somewhat under the influence of the Earth's impurity, even if only the faintest bit.

In those days, I still thought of myself as nobility, different from the people of Earth, and I only thought of the Earth people as means to an end, but... Gensokyo is truly a mysterious place. It is a world where humans and youkai live side by side, and where the old and the new intermingled. Nobody would bat an eye at the presence of Lunarians or advanced lunar technology. People would just laugh if we said we were some sort of high-class nobles.

Gensokyo was the place that put me at ease, because even if I didn't spend my time in hiding I wouldn't stand out at all.

"Especially since I hear the pH level in the rain is so low nowadays. After all, the Inabas have so much hair..."

"Hmhmhm, don't worry, Kaguya. The pH level of the rain in Gensokyo is 6. That won't make any plants wither, so the rabbits' hair won't fall out."

Eirin responded seriously to my joke with "And even if it did, it would be easy enough to make a medicine to grow it back."

I want to study to learn a bit more about Earth. Of course, I can't compare with Eirin's intellect. Eirin could come back with a response to any complicated words or phrases I used on her. Honestly, I don't even know what pH is supposed to mean...

I wonder how she's come to know so much. It's always something I've found mysterious, even back from my time on the moon. She is well-informed of the Earth and the moon, and despite living in Gensokyo she even knows much about the outside world.

However, particularly erudite people do have what you might call their own particular habits. They don't typically relay their knowledge in an easy-to-understand fashion. Sometimes they'll say something difficult to understand on purpose to enjoy the reactions of others. I think there's a world of difference between a teacher and a scholar.

"So, if it's pH 6... umm..."

"It means the water is very neutral. It's not terribly acidic."

So the pH rating is a measure of how acrid the water is. This time I'm grateful to Eirin for having made it so easy to understand.

"Ah, so rain can become acidic as well. Well, why don't we have the Inabas make their dumplings inside even if it's not raining too hard."

Eirin nodded as I said that.

I left Eirin's medicine-scented room behind me and went to tell Reisen, who was in the kitchen, about the plans for the day's festival.

"Oh, Princess Kaguya. We're almost ready, so..."

Reisen was already wearing a raincoat, and seemed ready to head outside to pound rice cakes.

"No, that's okay. Please make them inside today."

"Huh?"

This seemed to take Reisen by surprise. This was probably because the only other time we'd held the festival indoors the wind was so strong the rabbits couldn't even stand up.

"Master said to stay inside if the rain got too bad, but it's still only a light shower outside, so we were going to go out..."

"The rain isn't too acidic, so you can stay inside."

"The rain isn't...? What does that..."

"A pH level of 6 is, well, don't worry about it. Just do as I say, and everything will be all right." Eirin liked to say things like that. It's feels good to say it even if there's no real reason to do so.

"O-Okay, thank you. I believe we'll hold the festival inside Eientei today, then. It might get a little loud though..."

The rabbits sing songs while they pound rice cakes during the lunar festival. It's not really part of the ceremony, per se, but the rabbits seem to enjoy it, so we let them be. Well, it might make them more nervous if they did it inside.

"How strange. It should be such a quiet festival, but it's always so boisterous."

"Uh, no, we'll be sure to keep quiet this time."

"No, no, it's quite all right. I know how you all enjoy singing while you pound rice cakes."

"We? Well, I won't, actually. But Tewi and the others never listen to what I say, so..."

"If they won't listen to you, then there's no point in promising to be quiet, is there?"

Just as Reisen said she was very sorry, Tewi's voice could be heard calling out through the back door in the kitchen, "Is it time yet?"

"Well, in return for the noise, I'd like you to try to add more kinds of flavors to the dumplings today."

"That is a simple request. Please let us know if you have anything in particular you'd like."

I thought for a while, and eventually responded, "We have three-colored dumplings, so why not seven-colored dumplings?"

I returned to my room, and to the task of caring for the unusual bonsai.

I just don't have anything to do, even though it's the day of the lunar festival. Well, it's not limited to festival preparation, I rarely have any tasks that I need to perform. I get my information about what's happening beyond the bamboo forest from the Inabas, and Eirin takes care of any emergency patients or visitors. Honestly, a life where you don't have to do anything is boring.

I think it was the same when I was still in the lunar capital. I became fascinated with Earth due to my boredom, but I didn't understand until I first came here. The lack of anything to do was not limited to my environment, whether the moon or Earth, but it was a personal issue. A heart that relies only on outside stimulation leads to boredom and unease.

So, in an effort to break through that boredom, I made it my job to care for this bonsai. It really does change your mood to have something you must do every day.

The bonsai I've been gazing at so intently never changes no matter how much I stare at it. However, it shouldn't be possible for anything on Earth to remain unchanged. Anything with a form will erode, and anything that lives will die. This is a fate that nothing on Earth can escape. Eirin told me this is because of the impurity that permeates all things on Earth.

This impurity steals the eternity from all things' life force and physicality, and at the same time it plunders from their lifespan. Since all things on earth are tainted in this manner to some degree, nothing can last forever. And, of course, nothing can remain the same forever.

However, the bonsai before me is not tainted. It has been able to preserve its eternity. It appears unable to grow not because it's already dead, but because it's still full of eternity thanks to my power. My power is the ability to control eternity and the instantaneous. It gives me the ability to create a pure eternity that could never exist otherwise on the Earth.

In fact, this bonsai is a plant that only grows in the lunar capital called the udonge. It has the same name as a legendary plant on Earth that's said to flower once every three thousand years.

The plant on the Earth is a different plant called the udonge. It takes its name from the plant of legend, and only blooms very rarely.

Real udonge is a tree that only grows in the lunar capital. When it blossoms, beautiful seven-colored jewels appear on its branches. The Jeweled Branch of Hourai that I requested from a man who came seeking my hand in marriage long ago refers to a branch from an udonge tree that has borne these "fruits." The Jeweled Branch of Hourai comes from the Hourai udonge.

The udonge never blooms or bears fruit in the lunar capital. It looks deteriorated, but it embodies the sense of "the flow of time" inherent in the phrase "wabisabi". It only lives, never growing or bearing fruit. But, if you bring one of its branches to Earth, it changes its form in reaction to the Earth's impurity. It feeds on that impurity and begins to grow, bearing fruit to a beautiful seven-colored gem.

I don't know how a plant that feeds on impurity could live on the pure moon, but I'm sure it was created by a certain sage that lived in the lunar capital. As soon as any impurity found its way onto the moon, the plant would blossom, allowing it to serve as a detection mechanism.

The emissaries of the moon typically take a branch from an udonge with them when they descend to Earth. Once there, they give it to an authority figure, and it reacts to the impurity in that person and bears splendid fruit. The more powerful the person is, the more beautiful the gems borne by the branch. Of course, the recipient invariably takes that as a sign of their authority.

Still, everything on the Earth eventually breaks down. The prosperous will always return to nothing, and even the powerful will eventually fade away. When that happens, the jeweled branch of the udonge will be coveted by many, and a fight over it will ensue. Thus, the peace of the Earth is disrupted and turned into chaos.

In other words, the udonge is often used as an implement by which the moon causes disorder on Earth. It should be easy to understand why this is by examining human history. Human history and growth are both linked closely to strife. Without conflict, humanity would have no impetus for growth. When humans are satisfied with their present condition, they may as well give up on life. The people of the moon spend much of their lives thinking of the people of Earth. The history of Earth has progressed just the way the moon has wanted it.

"Kaguya, look. The rain's stopped, and you can see the moon through a break in the clouds."

I opened my eyes at the sound of a voice behind me. I must have dropped off while looking at the bonsai and thinking.

"Oh, so it has. I must have dozed of while looking at the bonsai."

The udonge bonsai I held in my hands still hadn't borne fruit or flower.

This was because I'd cast a spell of eternity over the entire mansion, but I had lifted that spell after recent events. In other words, Eientei's history had begun to advance, just like the rest of the Earth. Soon, the Earth's impurity would begin to spread throughout the mansion, and Eientei would become just another part of Earth. It was just a matter of time before the udonge blossomed.

If the outlook Eirin and I had held has changed, it's probably the effect of the Earth's impurity. Once touched by the impurity of the Earth, you can never go back to the lunar capital, but we had no intention to do so. I do feel sorry for Reisen, though, who got caught up in our affairs.

Thinking of which, Eirin often calls Reisen "Udonge." I wonder why that is? She must think of her as something to gauge the extent of the impurity that's creeping into us... Or perhaps it's meant to mean that a moon rabbit who knew no impurity on the moon will become something beautiful when touched by the Earth's.

"Oh my, maybe it's because of the rain, but the moon looks so beautiful tonight. Oh, what about the Inabas? I told them they could have the festival indoors tonight, but..."

Eirin, smiling, replied:

"They're already outside. They seem to be more comfortable outside."

"Hmmm. I wonder what that means."

"No matter what you do, you're always more at ease when the boss isn't close by."

"Well, maybe we should have them always hold the festival outside, no matter what the weather. Come nowaki (*1) or anything else." The rabbits' voices drifted in from outside the window. Their singing had been very restrained when there were inside. They seemed to be having a lot of fun singing now. Eirin noticed the udonge bonsai.

"...It still hasn't changed, I see. I'm sure it won't be long before it starts growing. And after its first flowers bloom, it should bear fruit to splendid seven-colored jewels. It will be nice, won't it?"

"Yes, it will. The jeweled branch of the udonge is a special privilege for the Earth people. Oh, and I've done something to try to help give us a taste of that jeweled fruit today."

Eirin asked, "What do you mean?" and tilted her head to one side. It's nice to be able to befuddle Eirin once in a while.

"I asked Reisen to make seven-colored dumplings instead of the usual three-colored ones for today's festival."

"I see, how interesting. I don't know how much I'd like it if they turned out the same colors as the udonge's jewels, though."

"Why is that?"

"Because the Hourai jewels have colors like blue and indigo. Those aren't very appetizing, don't you think?"

The rabbits' singing voices outside became more intense. The sounds they made pounding dumplings sounded just like a Japanese taiko drum. The rabbits have a mysterious ability. Even beyond telepathy, they're able to maintain a strong connection without exchanging a word.

Reisen can communicate with the rabbits on the moon, and Tewi and the others can all dance in perfect rhythm without saying a word. The rhythm and cyclical nature of the pounding all came together to make a mysterious sort of music.

Eirin and I took in the music the rabbits were playing outside with our tea and enjoyed the autumn night. Because it was the harvest moon, we took some time to relax outside.

"The rabbits' rhythm tonight is amazing, isn't it? I wonder why that is."

"It must be because it's the harvest moon..."

Having said that, Eirin added, "Just like kecak, isn't it?", but I had no idea what she was talking about.

"By the way, Eirin. Remember two months ago... Doesn't it seem like something's been happening since then?"

"Yes, someone on Earth has definitely been spreading the subject, and everyone's talking about the moon nowadays."

That's right. I think it was about two months ago that the rumors started of a revolutionary force, led by Eirin, was going to infiltrate the moon, and that fugitive moon rabbit showed up at the shrine.

We'd heard rumors of internal disorder in the lunar capital before then, and someone was definitely trying to cause unrest in the lunar capital. Perhaps they were using Eirin's name to serve as a scapegoat, or perhaps she just came up naturally.

I didn't worry too much about it after that since Eirin sent a sealed letter to certain people she trusted on the moon explaining the circumstances, but since then more people have been spreading rumours about the moon in Gensokyo.

"But there shouldn't be any humans that know that that rabbit from two months ago was a moon rabbit, should there?"

"Well, that probably was an unexpected accident."

"Accident?"

"It probably wasn't something the real mastermind imagined would happen."

"...I wonder if there really is such a person? I just don't have any idea what a mastermind would have imagined. But, what if it wasn't an accident, and that mastermind planned it, too?"

"If that's the case... then I give up."

Eirin said, "After all, I don't have any other ways to contact those girls on the moon," raising both hands to about shoulder height, facing the sky.

The war on the moon wasn't the only problem. It seemed that the vampire was trying to assemble a moon rocket. According to rumor, they were attempting some sort of large-scale construction and had gotten the shrine and Kourindo involved somehow.

"I wonder if that vampire is behind it all. They say they've almost finished developing a moon rocket, and trying to invade the lunar capital seems like something she'd do."

"The possibility is high, but that would mean that using me as a scapegoat, the flag drifting down from the moon and that moon rabbit's appearance were all just coincidences."

"And why is that?" I had an idea of what her answer would be, but I was a bit disappointed to hear the response I'd expected: "Because that child doesn't know anything about any of those."

The loud, resounding sounds of the pounding had turned into the chattering voices of the rabbits outside. It seems this month's festival had ended without incident as well.

When Eirin and I went outside to check, the dumplings had already been piled up on a large platter. They were, indeed, magnificent seven-colored dumplings, but the psychedelic colors, such as a gaudy red and a dazzling blue, made them appear quite unappetizing.

"Oh, Princess Kaguya, Master. We're still cleaning up, so please wait a bit."

Reisen ordered Tewi to clean up the millstones. I looked to the sky to try to find the wonderful moon called the harvest moon, but it was nowhere to be seen.

"The rain has cleared up, but... the moon is hidden behind the clouds again."

"Yes, it is. It was only out for the briefest of moments. I'd hoped we'd finally be able to sit and watch the moon, but... what's the matter?"

"No, just hearing the words 'I thought we'd finally be able to sit and watch the moon' from a fugitive moon rabbit was amusing." I couldn't help laughing softly.

A little embarrassed, Reisen said, "Well, if you spend time on Earth, you start to do the same things Earth people do."

The earth rabbits were obediently cleaning up all the millstones. Normally they'd halfheartedly clean up for a while before disappearing off somewhere, and Reisen was amazed by their obedient behavior.

Of course, that was because we hadn't mixed in the usual medicine with the dumplings. Normally we'd sneak in something to make them more excitable as they snuck a few dumplings during the festival to make it more lively, but we exchanged it with a strength-nourishing medicine because we were to have some dumplings tonight as well. Without the usual stimulants, the rabbits were more obedient.

Still, it seems the rabbits had plenty of excitement during the festival, regardless. If they can enjoy it so much without us having to add medicine to the dumplings, then nothing could be better.

"Oh, Reisen. I asked for seven-colored dumplings, but they turned out to be truly vivid, didn't they?"

I added to myself, "The three-colored dumplings being peach and white and dark green isn't very appetizing either."

?
"Ah, why don't I tell you about them? We made rainbow dumplings with red, orange, yellow, green, blue, indigo and violet. We did our best to find ingredients to make each of the different colors... but we really only had the colors in mind, so you may not think the contents are very appetizing. Do you still want to hear about them?"

"No, thank you." They weren't all that appetizing before I knew what was in them, and it would be a shame if I had any less desire to try to finish these tonight.

Eirin placed a blue dumpling in her mouth and said, "This is actually really good." So Eirin's knowledge is such that it can stand up to any challenge anywhere. I was impressed.

"Sorry to change the topic, but don't you get the impression that the disorder on the moon is spreading to the Earth now?"

Eirin and I glanced at each other and said together, "It's nothing for the rabbits to worry about."

Reisen looked a bit uneasy.

"Well, I don't know if it's a big deal or not, but the vampire's maid came here asking about fuel to take them to the moon."

"Oh, she came here, too?"

"Too?"

"Eirin and I were talking about this before. The vampire is trying to build a rocket to go to the moon. It looks like they're going around trying to find rocket fuel for it."

"I see. Well, I sent her away immediately when she came here..."

"Why did you send her away?"

"What? Well, there's no reason for us to help Earth youkai try to get to the moon, is there? That, and I didn't want to disturb either of you about it."

"You shouldn't have sent her away, but sent out tea. Just not information."

A cold wind began to blow, perhaps due to the rain earlier. It looked like we'd passed another full moon safely. Honestly, I didn't believe we'd have to worry about someone from the lunar capital coming to find us during the full moon anymore. We believed such things were no longer possible.

I wonder how it could be that my outlook changed so much in three years after having spent over a millennium in hiding in this manor behind my spell of eternity.

If it's due to the effect of the impurity that wears down everything on Earth, Earth people must adapt quite quickly to change. They're not always worrying over the same thing, but rather always going from one problem to the next, and forgetting the unpleasant experiences. If I've changed this much, I wonder if Eirin has, as well?

Eirin has been alive for much longer than I have. Due to her longevity, even on the moon, she was a key figure in her role as sage. Even since coming down to Earth she has a way of thinking that's quite different from the humans'.

That's why I thought that even if I lifted my spell of eternity, she wouldn't change much. I thought that the Earth's impurity had nothing to do with us. Of course, reality was not like that, and one can see slight changes even in Eirin's behavior.

Eirin opened a clinic on Earth. Now she's well-known enough that people in the village refer cases to Eientei that their doctors cannot heal. The old Eirin would never have thought to do such a thing. Before she would have only seen them as means to her own ends, but now she goes so far as to help maintain their health.

As for why she opened the clinic, Eirin herself said, "We'll have to live as Earth people now, so we can't neglect our duties towards others. It's customary for Earth people to help others in need," she said. It must be like that saying, a day's work for a day's bread.

I believe I understand that. Even the couple that raised me had their peaceful life taken away by the moon's opulent rewards. Earth people don't expect results for anything beyond their own actions. To do so would be to invite unhappiness.

Even though I understand it, I can't put it into practice myself. And I get the feeling that there are many people, not just me, who aren't working for the good of other people. When I tell Eirin about these worries of mine, she avoids the question and says, "Kaguya, just worry about doing what you, yourself, want to do. If there's nothing you want to do, then make finding something to do your job."

I still haven't found a role for myself as a member of Earth society, but something should start around the time the udonge blossoms. I thought that the flower might bloom about the time I found something to do.

"Reisen. If the vampire's servant comes here again, I hope you'll bring them to me."

Eirin's advice to Reisen was worded a bit sternly, so Reisen appeared a bit downcast as she said:

"I'm sorry, Master. Did you want to try to find out something from that maid? I think she intends to come around once more..."

Eirin replied, "If you bring her to me, I can turn her down politely," and smiled. Reisen seemed a bit more at ease on hearing this, and said, "Well, then, next time I'll be happy to bring her to you."

"We no longer have the means to go to the moon anyway."

"That's true... but even so, the vampire will want to know how to get there," Reisen whispered, gazing at where the harvest moon should have been.

Eirin, noticing the subtle change in Reisen's demeanor, said this to put her at ease.

"Anyway, there's no need for you to worry even if whatever disturbance comes to the Earth."

Reisen seemed to achieve some sort of breakthrough, and asked her Master once more for confirmation.

"Is that because there's no way for anyone on Earth to get to the moon?"

Eirin smiled mysteriously upon hearing that and responded:

"Hahaha, that's not it. We're not members of lunar society anymore. We're just a simple group of humans and youkai living on the Earth, so there's no need for us to worry about what happens on the moon."

Once I heard that, I smiled as well, and decided to leave the strange goings-on in Eirin's hands.

A wind bearing no impurities sweeps soundlessly, causing ripples on the surface of the sea. Nothing else disturbs it. After all, nothing lives in the moon's seas.

It's said that life on Earth came from the seas. At a time so far into the past that the mind boggles to consider it, a desperate war for survival was unfolding.

Creatures who became larger to overwhelm others, creatures who used oxygen to move nimbly, creatures who moved to dry earth seeking a new realm, creatures that left that earth for the skies, many new victors began to appear. As the source of all life, the seas were also the greatest battlefield. As the victors of such a embattled history, there were none that were supposed to have remained impure.

However, there are nearly no impure beings in the lunar capital. So, the sea that stretched out before my eyes is devoid of life. Not a single of the creatures from this sea were able to take up residence on the moon's surface. Yes, this sea bears not a single impurity, save one thing, the place where it reflects that blue planet.

"Sister? Did you see something in the Sea of Tranquility? You've come here to check on it quite often lately..."

"No, nothing's happened today, either."

When I said that, my younger sister, Watatsuki no Yorihime, looked concerned.

"There have been a lot of rumors causing unrest among the rabbits lately... We should be careful about our movements."

"It will be fine. There's no need for concern."

"No, I mean, people suspect us of aiding those from the Earth. And that's because..."

"Because of my power, perhaps?"

"Well, it may be because of that, but... don't you think your behavior as of late looks suspicious to other people, Sister?"

"But I'm only coming here to watch the sea."

"But people think that's suspicious. If you're going to act with such liberty... I believe the rabbits may start wondering if you are truly pulling your own weight." (*1)

"Well, I never was that heavy to begin with, anyway. Don't worry, the future that Lady Yagokoro left for us is still there."

Even as I said that, I realized the faintest trace of impurity borne in the wind. It was a portent of calamity that only I, Watatsuki no Toyohime, the lunar princess with the power to connect mountain and sea, could sense.

Was it just my imagination, or had someone secretly brought the impurity from the Earth? Was somebody planning some foul deed in the capital...?

I didn't want to worry Yorihime unnecessarily, so I kept the matter to myself, and together we departed from the Sea of Tranquility.

Someone once said the surface of the moon was a bleak and desolate world. There is no trace of the seasons which bring occasional discomfort to the living; it's a climate that combines the mildness of spring, the liveliness of summer, the plenty of autumn and the loneliness of winter year-round. The beautiful peach trees glimmering beneath the blue stars. And, of course, the lunar capital, full of the smiles of rabbits.

The rabbits greeted us like they always did as we walked through the streets of the capital. They lined the roads whiling away the time with activities such as shogi, sipping tea and napping. Even as we cheerfully returned their greetings, we couldn't help but wonder if they were really doing their work.

The rabbits of the moon are assigned various tasks. Most of them work in agricultural affairs, but many other jobs are left to them as well, such as medicine making, cleaning and the defense of the lunar capital.

Since we, the Watatsuki family, are in charge of watching over the Earth, the rabbits we keep at our house serve as lunar emissaries, and are trained to do battle, presumably, with the Earth if the occasion arises.

The lunar capital was a perfect advanced metropolis. Its physical and technological wealth had been established far into the past, which made enhancing its spiritual wealth all the more important. Of course, this is according to the people of the city, but it's important for the rabbits to work towards these ends.

However, this perfection would have been unattainable in the presence of any impure living thing. If by some off chance a Lunarian were to become impure, they would be banished to Earth. To the Lunarians, Earth was a great prison, and we, the Watatsuki sisters, watched over those who were sent to Earth.

We returned to the mansion, sipped tea flavored with peach leaves and set about planning our defense.

"These recent rumors are troubling."

When I said that, Yorihime adopted an expression that seemed to question whether I know what I was saying and remarked, "Isn't that because you've been acting too freely of late, my sister?"

It was a rumor that was spreading among the rabbits. It seems to have started from the news that the flag that had been planted on the light side of the moon, which we called the Apollo flag, had disappeared.

The rumors concerned the security of the lunar capital. They were all silly, baseless things, like "Someone is going to invade from Earth", or "There's a traitor in the capital", but the rabbits were naive and loved rumors, so they believed them.

Whether an enemy attacked from Earth or a rebellion began on the Moon, we'd be the first to fall under suspicion. This was because, our duties and abilities aside, we were the most closely-related to matters regarding Earth. On top of that, we were the only two still alive who had been raised by the high-level criminal who had been semipermanently banished to the Earth, Lady Eirin Yagokoro. Since we had not spent too much effort in looking for her, it's only natural that people would suspect us.

"They say rumors are fated to disappear within seventy-five days, but... none of them have actually done so, even after all this time has passed, so I believe it is now necessary to prove to everyone we are innocent."

"You worry too much, Yorihime. It's just because the rabbits love rumors so much."

Obviously, an unfounded rumor can still cause panic among society. So, we couldn't really afford to ignore the rumors, but on the other hand, we could also use them to our advantage to keep the public under control. I personally think it's better to take advantage of a rumor than to deny it. A forceful denial can invite mistrust and disorder.

"Maybe, but..."

"It does not matter if the rumors are true or not. Of course, I don't think they are... but it's obvious that rumors are spreading around the capital now. All that means is we must choose our actions with prudence. We can use the rumors to our advantage."

"But, you know, if we're under suspicion I can't just do as I please like you, my sister... I can't live a carefree life like that."

"What? Can't you say it a bit nicer than that?"

Tea time came to an end, and it came time to apply ourselves to our duties... yet, compared to my sister, who is in charge of drilling the members of the Rabbit Guard (and they had just inducted a new member), I, who am in charge of watching over the path to Earth and leading the rabbits we use as emissaries, usually don't have much to do. Usually, I will join them in their training.

However, since the Rabbit Guard are in a state of emergency preparation now, I decided not to disturb them and stole away to watch the Sea of Tranquility once more. The Sea of Tranquility is the lunar mare that spreads out across the moon on the opposite side of the moon from the lunar capital.

Waves rippled in silence across the lifeless ocean. As I watched the ocean, memories of the distant past sprang to my mind.

Life was born in the sea, and after a long struggle for survival, the ocean was defiled, and only the victors made it to the untainted land.

On land, the epic battle for survival unfolded once more. Some creatures became strong and fed on the weak. Some increased their numbers and were able to leave successors after being eaten. There were even those who cast aside the earth and sought a pure world in the sky. There were even those few who had no competition but lost their ability to adapt and died off. Some even gave up on the earth and returned to the sea. There were very few victors, and most were destroyed in the battle, becoming extinct.

The history of life is a history of conflict. And winners dictate how history is recorded. The Earth has become so impure because it is such a blood-stained world. Living things tend to live on forever, but the impurity stole away their longevity. It was a world of the short-lived.

Today, Earth has become a place where almost nothing can live for more than a hundred years.

However, there was a sage who realized that the impurity was stealing life from all living things. It is said that while watching the full moon hanging in the sky over the ocean, this sage became determined to free themselves from the impure Earth.

As if moving from living in the sea to the earth, or from the earth to the sky, this sage left the Earth and took up residence on the moon. This sage is the founder of the lunar capital, the lord of the night and of the lunar capital, Tsukuyomi.

Lord Tsukuyomi took only relatives he had the utmost trust in and moved to the moon. The moon was completely without impurity. As a result, those who had moved to the moon forsook any lifespan. That they had no lifespan meant they were neither alive nor dead. In that sense, the moon is be a Pure Land, without impurity. It may even be the same as the world in the afterlife.

Of course, since the lunar citizens and the moon rabbits aren't immortal, they can die in, for example, accidents or battles. Still, even the citizens of the lunar capital bear just the faintest trace of impurity. Even we may be fated to die some day.

Our master has lived even longer than Lord Tsukuyomi. When he moved to the moon and built the capital, the one he relied on the most was our master, Lady Eirin Yagokoro.

"...My sister. Have you come to watch the sea again? If you're so concerned to come here so often, does that mean something has happened, after all?"

Yorihime's voice called out to me. Once I stopped to think about it, it seemed quite some time had passed.

"No, if we're to believe the contents of Lady Yagokoro's letter, then no change should have already occurred."

"I hope that's the case..."

"I was watching the sea while wondering if someone would attack from Earth, and it reminded me of long ago."

"Long ago... Do you mean when Lady Yagokoro betrayed the moon and hid herself on the Earth?"

"No, much longer ago. Do you remember, Yorihime?"

"Even longer ago? Over a thousand years ago? I can't quite recall off-hand, of course..."

"This happened over 1500 years ago, and I can remember from before even then. Come now, don't you remember when that human from Earth came riding on a turtle from the Sea of Tranquility?"

We were standing before the Sea of Tranquility, but the moon's seas are its closest points to the Earth. As a result, living things from the Earth would occasionally find their way there.

This phenomenon is called spiriting away on Earth. However, this doesn't just refer to things finding their way to the moon. It also refers to things getting lost in the past, the future, Heaven, Hell, and various other places. Long ago, Lady Yagokoro explained to us why this happens.

"From a quantum point of view, possible events will absolutely always happen. This is because in the quantum world, everything is decided by probability, but it's impossible to capture that probability with exact precision. As long as an unrealized event has a non-zero probability, no matter how low it is, it will occur at some point. Since the universe is built on quantum phenomena, it's not all that unusual that living things from Earth should find their way to the moon. After all, that's how even we came to live on the moon."

Right away I understood Lady Yagokoro's lesson, and now I am one of the very few who have ever had the ability to bind together Earth and the moon, who have the power to go back and forth between them at will.

The Lunarians had long ago realized that our world is built on probabilities, that absolutely anything can happen. That was what enabled them to move from the Earth to the moon in the first place. Digressing somewhat, the human scientific community on Earth awakened to the fact that the microscopic world is built on potential some decades ago. This development shocked Lord Tsukuyomi. This is because the one thing the Lunarians fear the most is that the humans from Earth will find a way to get to the lunar capital. For now, all that's happened is the launch of a primitive rocket to the side of the moon closest to them, but we can't afford to be careless.

"Over 1500 years ago? A human from Earth suddenly appeared? And riding a turtle..."

"Well, it was quite a while ago. The time when Mizue no Uranoshimako came to the moon, much further back than when our master went to Earth..."

Over 1500 years ago, a human by the name Mizue no Uranoshimako appeared from the blue planet reflected in the ocean.

Most human victims of spiritings-away go straight into a state of panic, and seem to want to return to the world they knew. So, as soon as I find them, I typically use my power to send them back.

However, he was different. As soon as he regained his senses and saw the lunar capital he forgot about returning to Earth, and began to say he wanted to stay here a little longer. Maybe he was a little slow. But, since I was interested in the people of Earth as well, I let him stay in our mansion for a while, keeping it a secret from Lady Yagokoro.

This was the story of Urashimako. He was a fisherman, and one day as he was setting out as usual he saw a strange turtle with a shell dazzling in five colors. Since it was so unusual and beautiful, he decided to make it his by any means and set his boat in pursuit of it.

He followed it out to sea so far that he couldn't even see the shore, and eventually dove into the sea and caught it, but his boat, which should have been nearby, had suddenly disappeared, so he simply clung to the back of the turtle and let it lead him in its wanderings, with no destination in mind. And so, without realizing he had slipped out of his own world and into a totally different world, he finally arrived at the lunar capital, mistaking it for the country across the ocean. The land across the ocean was, of course, the lunar capital, but he believed it was the land of Hourai.

I told him this wasn't the case, and fed him the lie that he wasn't in the land of Hourai, but at the Dragon King's Palace at the bottom of the sea. I said the five colored turtle was a lost pet of mine, and that when I'd gone looking for it, I'd found it with him clutching to its back.

I lied to him because of the interest Earth humans had in the lunar capital, and because I was afraid that someone powerful might find it. In retrospect, I believe that my judgment was wrong, and this mistake was corrected through the actions of Lady Yagokoro.

When Urashimako saw the amazing sight of the lunar rabbits singing and dancing, he was incredibly moved. He was amazed that the bottom of the ocean was such an enjoyable place.

The stars are visible along with the sun during the day from the lunar capital, so he became doubtful when he first looked at the sky. "Why are there so many stars in the sky on the bottom of the ocean?", he asked, so I told him they weren't stars, but the shimmering forms of fish dancing in the ocean. He was impressed that we were so far beneath the sea that even the fish looked like little dots.

And so, Urashimako spent three years in the lunar capital under these false impressions. It was truly unusual for someone from Earth to spend so much time in the capital. That's why I remembered it so clearly, but it seems Yorihime doesn't have as strong an impression of that time.

"Mizue no Uranoshimako? Ah, yes, I remember such a human. He loved fishing, and eventually became quite a splendid god, didn't he?"

After three years had passed, he began to speak of a yearning for home. Most humans would be a little homesick after a few hours, but it took quite a bit of time for him to feel that way.

"That's right. That human. He's the Tsutsugawa deity now. Not a bad place for a simple fisherman to end up."

As soon as he began to say he wanted to go home, nothing here could move him anymore. All he ever did was complain about how much he wanted to go home.

I had no reason to keep a human here who wanted to go back to Earth. Since I'd kept an impure human here for so long in secret, it was better to send him back before I was found out.

However, there was one thing I worried about: if someone asked him where he'd been for the past three years, he'd surely speak of everything he'd seen here. That might make people interested in the Dragon King's Palace, in the lunar capital. This would be a problem for the capital.

I confessed everything to Lady Yagokoro, and consulted with her on what the best course of action would be. To my surprise, Lady Yagokoro wasn't at all angry that I'd kept a human here for so long.

Lady Yagokoro's advice was: "It's best to make someone like that a dead man. People on Earth would treat someone who went out to sea three years ago and hasn't been seen since as dead. Well, this is generally what you'd expect to happen if you halfheartedly hide some living thing that's come here from Earth for so long..."

"Yes, yes, the great Tsutsugawa deity. Though, it seems laughable to us that such a greedy fisherman could be revered as a god."

"Lady Yagokoro advised us to kill him right away, but we felt too sorry for him to carry it out."

Of course, the fact that I'd looked after him so long made it difficult to kill him. My sister was the same, so she didn't want to kill him, either.

That being the case, we asked if there were any other way to deal with this situation. Lady Yagokoro smiled and said, "Of course, you're both too kind for that," and suggested a different, truly excellent plan.

The alternative was to send him to an era where nobody remembered who Mizue no Uranoshimako was. In other words, to create a time difference between the Dragon King's Palace and Earth of a factor of almost a hundred, and return him to a time three hundred years after he left.

At the time, we didn't understand why that solution was best. If we sent a human back to a world where he didn't know anybody, he'd just be confused, and he'd still tell everyone about the Dragon King's Palace. However, Lady Yagokoro was never wrong. We placed our absolute trust in her. So, we took her advice.

To send him back to a world three hundred years after the time he left, we decided to place him into cryogenic storage, which was cutting-edge technology at the time, and return him to the Earth after he'd slept for nearly three hundred years. Of course, we hadn't suspected that our sudden parting with Lady Yagokoro awaited us less than three hundred years away...

"But why are you bringing that up now?"

"I was wondering what we should do if someone comes like that from Earth again."

Thus, Mizue no Uranoshimako was brought to the lunar capital on the back of a five-colored turtle, and spent three wonderful years there before being returned to an Earth where three hundred years had passed.

Something felt wrong as soon as he reached the sandy beach. The white sand, the pine trees, the blue sky; even though nothing at all should have changed since the day he set out fishing, he felt unease on the sea air. The anxious Urashimako returned to his house, but where his house should have been there was an empty expanse of grass. Even when he went to his friends' houses, the people living there had no recollection of him, and not a single person in the village knew who he was. He fell into deep despair.

"Now... I think we should send them back right away or kill them. We're not as foolish now as we were then."

"Or we are not as kind as we were fifteen hundred years ago...?"

The story doesn't end there.

It's said that before Lady Yagokoro went into hiding on the Earth, she sent Urashimako a tamakushige (*2) as a gift. It's also said that she sent a message along with it. "If you ever become troubled by your new life on Earth, open this box. However, if you ever want to return to the Dragon King's Palace, you must absolutely never open it."

I wonder what exactly was in that. Now that Lady Yagokoro is no longer here, there's no way to find out or to reproduce it.

In any case, it seems that almost as soon as he returned to Earth, Urashimako opened it. It was probably too depressing to continue living in a world where nobody remembered him. With a loud cry, he opened it. However, his misfortune did not end there. In an instant, all his body lost all of its youth, and he quickly aged to the point where he could no longer even walk. Something had been sealed inside that hastened his aging.

But this sudden aging was a blessing in disguise. This old man who knew about things that happened three hundred years ago was treated as a living god. His strange tale was believed to be a tale from the world of the gods, and became a legend in the village. Few people in that age lived to be as old as he was, and he couldn't read the script of the time but could still converse with others. If Urashimako had appeared to be young, his story would probably have remained idle gossip.

At length, Urashimako's story reached the ears of the then-current emperor, Jun'na. Emperor Jun'na listened to Urashimako's tale of the Dragon King's Palace, and he believed that he had found the fabled land of eternity across the sea, the land of Hourai, so he took great interest in the man. The land of Hourai was the land of eternal youth, so all of the authority figures of the age were searching desperately for it. By then, the legend had become somewhat cliched, and people began to doubt the existence of the land of Hourai, so hearing the legend of Urashimako pleased the emperor greatly.

Emperor Jun'na set about his plans immediately, but it was already too late. Urashimako was so old he couldn't take a single step, and by the time the Emperor's men found him, he had already breathed his last.

The emperor recognized Mizue Urashimako as one of the few men to have ever gone to the land of Hourai and returned, erecting a temple in his honor and bestowing upon him the Tsutsugawa divinity.

Mizue no Uranoshimako, a man who had been spirited away by chance. He was entered into the ranks of the gods, and by doing so strengthened people's faith in the land of Hourai, in the lunar capital, and made all of the era's authority figures aware of the majesty of its people.

I wonder if our master knew that this would happen. No, that's a foolish question, of course she knew. If she hadn't, then having him put into cryogenic storage for three hundred years and preparing the tamakushige that would age him was just idle play. Our master may have seemed the harshest one of us at first, but she was in fact the kindest.

"Now, it seems that traveling hundreds of years into the future is called the Urashima Effect."

"He's become a god, and his name is left to history. I'm sure it's made him happy. Hey, Yorihime, I wonder if we can predict what will happen so far in advance? It would be nice, since it seems like someone may come from the Earth..."

We enjoyed reminiscing, but suddenly Yorihime made a grim face.

"We've learned quite a few things since Lady Yagokoro left us."

Yorihime looked out across the sea and continued.

"We've learned that it's impossible for us to have such a deep comprehension of the future. That careless kindness can be problematic, both for humans and Lunarians..."

I placed a hand on Yorihime's tense shoulder.

"In that case, when the invaders from the Earth come, we'll have to do our best to repel them right away."

"My sister... that sounds like something Lady Yagokoro would say."

"That's because I'm the older one."

"...But we've lived so long that a difference like that is insignificant."

"No. No matter how many thousands of years pass, that's something that will never change."

"Hm, that means that you'll retire first, doesn't it? Just like Lady Yagokoro."

Yorihime smiled a bit. Seeing that, I lifted my hand from her shoulder and asked, "By the way, have the rabbits perfected their drills?" Yorihime sighed and responded.

"Ah, I suppose so. They're all doing their best, but I'm afraid we're a bit understaffed... I think I've been spending most of my time training our new recruit, Reisen, but she just isn't very strong."

"I bet. A lot of the rabbits assigned to pounding mochi are a pretty dull lot that just love singing. They're probably not worth much on the battlefield."

"The old Reisen had some talent... I wonder where she is now?"

The rabbits assigned to be lunar emissaries have relatively strict regulations, and it involves no small amount of physical training. So, it's not that unusual for rabbits to run away. Reisen was a rabbit who'd done just that before the start of the last war.

Reisen was exceptionally talented. She could hide easily and disturb the minds of others. However, she was also somewhat cowardly and self-centered. Obviously, these were potentially fatal traits for a soldier, but we couldn't correct them. As a result, she was uncooperative, and before the time for battle came, she abandoned her duties and fled to Earth.

It was our job to search for Reisen and bring her back to the moon, but over forty years had passed since then, and there was no point in pursuing the matter further. We decided she'd probably been made into some human's stew, or had been tainted by the Earth's impurity and could no longer be admitted back into the lunar capital.

"I'm worried about the new Reisen. She doesn't seem to have much sense, and seems a bit dull."

It was about three months earlier that this rabbit had come to us in a wounded condition.

She said she had tired of pounding mochi and fled to Earth, but Lady Yagokoro entrusted a letter to her there, so she came back to the moon. It had been several hundred years since we'd ceased the investigation into her whereabouts, so we hadn't thought that she would reach out to contact us.

The contents of her letter told how to protect the lunar capital. "I can't return to the lunar capital anymore, and I don't intend to cause trouble by contacting you in this manner, but I had to do something to tell you that somebody on Earth is plotting something untoward against the moon. Since I thought it would be too dangerous to contact you directly, I hope you'll forgive me for using this moon rabbit I happened to meet."

We let the rabbit who'd come with the letter stay in our mansion. The crime of escaping to the Earth to avoid pounding mochi was not a small one. However, she'd done the service of bringing Lady Yagokoro's letter to us, and I felt sorry for her, so we gave her the name Reisen and let her stay with us.

"Plus, our current Reisen has already fled to Earth once. We can't say for sure that she won't try to run away again."

"If everything happens as Lady Yagokoro has written, the invaders from Earth should be coming soon, but I'm still unsure about the situation." Yorihime said, turning to face me.

"It's best not to rely too much on the rabbits this time. Yorihime, when the time comes to fight, you should fight personally."

"V-very well. Of course, it depends on how many come..."

"It'll be fine. After all, you have many gods on your side."

An unexpected emergency interrupted our conversation.

Something had flown from the other side of the Sea of Tranquility.

The Sea of Tranquility was on the other side of the moon from the lunar capital, so the citizens of the capital and the moon rabbits seldom visited it.

With great caution I observed the being that was flying towards us. It was a small black mass - apparently in the form of a crow.

"A crow...?"

"My sister, a crow is the avatar of the sun. It may be a familiar of Lord Tsukuyomi's sister."

"...No, it's not. I can feel the avarice in its blood, the greed in its eyes, the impurity in its wings."

If that crow was an avatar of the sun, it would have three feet and red eyes!

"That is... a crow from Earth."

The crow didn't seem to be able to see us, but it flew doggedly on. In fact, it seemed to be driven not by any sort of homing instinct, but simply flew straight ahead, never wavering in its path. Eventually it flew right over our heads.

"An Earth crow... Perhaps this is another spiriting away?"

"It may be related somehow to the invaders that will come from Earth, so let's follow it!"

The crow flew straight on, occasionally making minor course corrections.

"Something is odd... Birds from Earth hardly ever appear here, and its flight seems too... mechanical."

The crow crossed over the Sea of Serenity and the Sea of Rains and flew on towards the Ocean of Storms.

"I knew it, that crow flew from Earth to reach the far side of the moon, looking for something!"

That is, it was likely that the crow hadn't come here by accident, but someone had sent it here.

The lunar capital is on the far side of the moon, protected by a barrier that hides its existence. As long as that barrier is in place, a human could never reach it. To make its way into that barrier, the crow would have to fly along a predetermined route, but somehow it was following the sea road that should have been invisible to it. With almost computer-like accuracy, like a shikigami.

The crow crossed over the Oceanus Procellarum without dropping its speed. At this rate, it looked like it would cross through the barrier surrounding the capital.

"My sister. If it continues any further, I believe it will reach the capital!"

"That crow has a great deal of impurity. We can't allow it to do that."

Leaving the crow's pursuit to my sister, I went on ahead to manipulate what was at the crow's destination to lay a trap over the final sea between it and the capital.

After pausing to hover over the sea in a completely unnatural fashion, the crow flew directly over my head.

"Born in the land of impurity, you impure being controlled in malice, your pure land is not here!"

As I spread my hands, the sea beneath my feet immediately began to drain its water, and the parched earth beneath it began to show through.

A barren mountain devoid of grass or trees, the remnants of machines from the humans' lunar expeditions, a black sky. And, a world without any air.

The desolate near side of the moon. This is the lunar world that the humans discovered. It is an exceedingly cruel, lonely world.

Having suddenly lost its atmosphere and gravity, the crow spiraled slowly towards the ground, foaming at the mouth. Before long, it expired. Unable to breathe, it asphyxiated.

I have the power to connect mountains and seas. I am also the only person with the power to connect the near and far sides of the moon.

Once I'd confirmed that the crow was no longer moving, the sea was filled again with water, and our plentiful land came into view once more.

"My sister! What happened to the crow?"

"It's dead. This crow was sent to the moon by someone; it was definitely heading toward the lunar capital, and knowing that now, clearly it was best to kill it."

" ...Yes. That was certainly for the best."

"I believe we'll need to study this crow's corpse a bit. Yorihime, would you look into that for me?"

"I'm already quite busy attending to the rabbits' training. Don't you have quite a bit of free time yourself, my sister?

"Uh."

And I do love my free time so.

"You have no sense of urgency, my dear sister. You're always eating peaches and going to the ocean, and if you ever do show up to training sessions you're only engaging the rabbits in idle chatter..."

But investigating isn't my specialty. Well, I usually leave war, battle instruction and investigation to my sister, so I told myself I really ought to contribute something once in a while.

"All right, I understand. I'll handle the examination."

We smiled to lighten to mood, but there was tension in our smiles. 

Smoke silently drifted from within Youkai Mountain. The mountain's eruptions were never severe, but they served to fill the sky above it with fumes.

In the village it's said that the mountain's smoke isn't real smoke, but rather fumes that spew from factories run by the tengu and the kappa.

This is mostly because the mountain's activity was once mere legend, and the rising smoke only started in the past hundred years or so. This was about the same time that the advanced technology the mountain youkai possessed became known in the human village.

Whether the mountain is active or not is beside the point, as it is, in fact, a volcano. This is obvious on inspection of the Genbu Ravine close to the Forest of Magic. The Genbu Ravine is a mysterious place made up of a six-sided rock formation covered in cracks so it looks like a tortoise shell with the surrounding cliffs forming a hexagonal prism[1].

This bizarre rock formation, seemingly artifically formed, was made when a lava flow cooled and hardened. Flowing lava from Youkai Mountain created the Genbu Ravine. In days of old, Youkai Mountain was a raging volcano.

There are even youkai who have seen the mountain erupt before, but since it's been a long time since it was active, most of them probably think that it won't erupt again.

However, the human that lived in the bamboo forest, Fujiwara no Mokou, knew. She knew that the smoke that came from Youkai Mountain wasn't from the kappa's factories, but from the dormant volcano.

"Go on, you shouldn't get lost anymore now. Just go straight down this path and you'll reach the village."

The villager I'd escorted thanked me time and time again as a look of relief swept over his face, then jogged off into the distance.

Just as its name suggests, many people lose their way in the Bamboo Forest of the Lost. That's because there's not much to serve as landmarks, so the fairies that live here love playing pranks. And still, the humans find reasons enough to set foot here all the time. That's probably because food like bamboo sprouts, mushrooms and rabbits are plentiful here.

Since I know the fairies around here pretty well, I don't get lost. So, whenever I find a lost human in the forest, I guide them back to the village. After all, lots of youkai hang around here, too, and I don't want to stumble across the remains of any lost villager.

Before I knew it, the lost man had walked out of sight. I lingered for a while at the entrance to the Bamboo Forest of the Lost.

It's not as if I was waiting until that person was out of sight to make sure they made it back safely. I was watching the smoke rising from Youkai Mountain. I couldn't help but remember events long past whenever I gazed at it.

It was something that had happened a few years ago. For some reason I wanted to know more about the smoke coming from that mountain, so I went to talk to someone who lives in the human village.

She was someone who knew a lot about the history of Gensokyo, and one of the few people who really understands me: the were-beast Keine Kamishirasawa.

"You want to know the truth about the smoke coming from Youkai Mountain?"

"Yeah, the villagers say it's the tengu's signal fires or the kappa's factories or something, but that doesn't sit right with me. I think I've seen smoke coming from that mountain before..."

"...I see. If that's the case, I suppose I should teach you about that mountain's history."

"That'd be a great help."

"That smoke... of course, it's not factory smoke or signals of any sort. It's the eternal smoke of a volcano."

Keine told me about the mountain's history. According to her, the mountain had been home to a certain god. It seems this god was called Iwanagahime.

"The smoke from the Youkai Mountain is produced by this god. If you can remember that smoke, perhaps you know something of that god?"

"Iwanagahime...?"

I'd never heard that name before.

"I've never heard of anyone like that before, so why should I know her?"

"I see. Well, it's not as if Iwanagahime is unrelated to you. You see, Iwanagahime is the spirit of eternal life... meaning, immortality."

"So she's the goddess of immortality...?"

Immortality, huh...? In that case, that's a pretty big relation. After all, I'd attained immortality after a certain incident.

"In addition, this Iwanagahime was the older sister of Lady Sengen. The name Sengen was originally read Asama, which means "volcano." Since Lady Sengen is another name for Konohana-sakuyahime, Sakuyahime is considered the goddess of volcanoes now, but Sakuyahime is actually a water deity who calms volcanoes-"

"Hold on a second. Did you just say Sakuyahime?"

"Yes, she's Iwanagahime's younger sister, and a very beautiful goddess. Her personality is said to be a bit difficult, but like a blooming flower-"

Since Keine's explanations tend to get extremely long once she gets started, sometimes it's best to just cut her off before things get out of hand.

"Well, I know about Sakuyahime. No, that's not exactly right. Back then-"

I remembered the mountain that was the cause of my present condition.

"If only she hadn't been there then...!"

I returned to a small house hidden in the Bamboo Forest of the Lost.

On the way back, I recalled the conversation I'd had with Keine several years ago. There's a secret behind the smoke coming from Youkai Mountain that only I know.

Lately, it had been getting dark early, so by the time I got back, the inside of the house was already dim. It was a season of light snowfall, and it had gotten quite cold, but I didn't bother with anything to provide warmth.

It was so cold inside the room you wouldn't think that anything lived there. I was used to that, though. After all, no matter how cold it got, I wouldn't die. If I can just bear the cold for a little while, the warmer seasons would return.

It must have been more than 1300 years since I'd become immortal.

For the first three hundred years, other people hated me, and I lived a sad life who only caused trouble to myself and those around me if I didn't stay in hiding.

The next three hundred years I spent harboring a grudge against this world, and was able to preserve the faintest sense of identity by immediately dispatching anything that crossed my path, youkai or otherwise.

For the next three hundred years the youkai in the area couldn't hold my interest anymore, and I lost all motivation towards anything, surrendering to tedium.

But during the next three hundred years, I was finally reunited with my immortal archrival, and we discovered the joys of killing each other, over and over.

And now, humans know about my existence again and I've readjusted to their society somewhat. I use the knowledge I've gained from centuries of existence and the strength I've gained from countless battles to escort the humans from the village. I spend my time protecting humans that wander into the bamboo forest from the youkai there, including some people who wander in from the outside world.

There was a time when I never would have imagined being thanked by another human being, but now it is what I live for. Finding Gensokyo, where the average person wasn't afraid of an immortal being, was like stumbling into paradise.

I sat on the floor, my back against the wall, one leg folded upright. I wonder how long it's been since I started sleeping in positions like this that made it easy to wake up. It made it impossible to fall into a deep sleep, and easy to spend lots of time thinking.

"Back then, if only she hadn't been there!"

Long sealed-away memories surfaced again in the back of my mind at the mention of Sakuyahime's name. She was the cause of my immortality, and was at the heart of the most sensational event in my life.

"If Sakuyahime hadn't showed up then, I wouldn't have killed that man, and I wouldn't have drank that elixir..."

I had a very old enemy. Her name was Kaguya Houraisan. She was an immortal human who disrupted my family's lives, and selfishly used her wiles to bewitch countless other people. Of course, she's still my greatest nemesis. Now, we're both immortal, and every once in a while we engage in epic mutual murders.

Of course, when I was young, I wouldn't have thought about mutual killings. Finding a way to harass Kaguya would have been enough to bring me some satisfaction. Looking back on it, I think spending that much time nursing my bitterness against others probably bent me. However, it's true that nothing brings a sense of motivation the way a lust for revenge does.

It was painful spending all of my days in search of a way to spite her, but that just made the revenge I sought all the more valuable. Since I think the pain that I taste today was that pain bestowed upon me by Kaguya, it's made it easier for me to keep going. In other words, I believe that Kaguya is completely to blame for the fact that I desire revenge.

The day I became immortal, I was following a certain person to seek my revenge against Kaguya. He was a man with a name something like Iwakasa, I think. He was leading a group of soldiers up a mountain carrying a jar. The jar was said to contain something Kaguya had left behind for someone important. I was planning to steal the jar. If I could gain even some slight amount of satisfaction from stealing the jar, then that would be fine.

The mountain that the soldiers were ascending in single-file was said to be the highest mountain in this nation, a spiritual mountain that only a few ascetics ever climbed, which is now called Mount Fuji.

Once you reach a certain ways up the mountain, the trees become shorter, and gradually the vegetation disappears altogether, leaving nothing but rocks. That meant that it became much harder for me to stay hidden as I tried to tail them up the mountain.

There was one other thing that threatened to deal a fatal blow to my plans. Namely, that I was reaching the limit of my physical endurance. Even reaching the foot of the mountain had taken several days and sapped me of much of my strength. To make matters worse, this was not an easy mountain to try to climb alone.

With no idea how I'd steal the jar the soldiers were carrying on their backs, I ran out of energy about four-fifths of the way up the mountain and lied down.

"He'd realized I'd been following him long before that. He turned to watch when I lied down, then came back to where I'd collapsed from exhaustion to bring me some water. In the end, we all reached the summit together, cheering each other on... but..."

"Why ever did you kill that man and take the jar?"

That's right, I had no grudge against Iwakasa. As a matter of fact, he'd probably saved my life. At that point, I don't think I even cared much about the jar anymore. Even my revenge against Kaguya was probably just a childish whim.

"...When you're almost to the top of the mountain, it makes you realize just how slowly you're travelling. The last leg of the climb is very difficult due to your exhaustion and the drain on your motivation."

When we reached the top of the mountain, I asked him why he'd climbed all the way to the summit.

"It was odd, because no matter how you look at it, I was the one who had the most suspicious reasons for climbing the mountain. Still, he answered my question and told me that men have to obey orders."

I told them the preposterous tale that I was following them because I was a bandit. I didn't think it was that far from the truth, since after all, I was trying to steal the jar. The soldiers laughed when they heard that. I'm sure that being by myself, I didn't seem like much of a threat to even a single one of them.

On Iwakasa's order, the soldiers placed the jar they'd been carrying on the ground. Just as I started to wonder what they'd do next, they started tying a string around the jar.

"They said the string would make it easier for them to fling it far away, and that they were going to throw the jar into the volcano's crater to burn it. I had no idea why they would do that."

I thought maybe the Emperor that had given Iwakasa his orders was trying to spite Kaguya, too. After all, he was going to the trouble to have someone take the gift Kaguya had left him up onto a volcano and throw it in.

"I'd climbed to the top of the mountain to try to steal that jar and soothe the anger deep in my heart, but all I could do then was watch and see what would happen to it. However, as soon as the soldiers approached the crater, a strange woman suddenly appeared, and everything changed."

"Was that woman, perhaps...?"

"Yes, that woman called herself Sakuyahime, and said that it was her power that kept the mountain from erupting. Sakuyahime said that the soldiers shouldn't throw the jar into the crater."

Sakuyahime was possessed of an otherworldly beauty and a peculiar transience that made it seem like she'd been burned up in a caldera somewhere before. The soldiers were shaken by her sudden appearance. Some even prostrated themselves before her godly figure out of reflex.

What came next shocked the soldiers even further. Iwakasa turned to Sakuyahime and told her, "I must burn the contents of this jar in the sacred fires of this mountain. This is an order from the Emperor." When he said that, Sakuyahime turned a contemptuous gaze upon him and said:

"If you burn that jar in this mountain, the volcano will begin to resume its activity, and my power will be unable to prevent it. That jar holds a power even greater than that of a god such as I. Do you understand just what is contained within that jar?"

The soldiers were dumbstruck. Probably, none of them had any idea about its contents. Of course, even I only knew that it was something Kaguya had left behind.

As Sakuyahime began to say, "Inside that jar is...", Iwakasa cut her off, saying, "You can't tell them that!"

However, Sakuyahime said, "No, these men have a right to know after making it all the way up this mountain," and said that the jar contained the elixir of immortality.

"Of course, they were blown off their feet. To think that by simply following Iwakasa's orders they'd done something to anger a god. Not only that, but inside the jar they'd carried up the mountain themselves was the elixir of immortality..."

"And you must have been quite surprised, too."

"Of course, I was surprised. That such a thing existed, that Kaguya had left it behind, that she'd had a reason for doing it..."

Keine stood before me and listened as I spoke of my foolish past, even though foolish people hate to hear about others' foolish exploits.

"...And that it was right before my very eyes."

The cold woke me up. The room was completely dark. It seems I'd fallen asleep for a bit.

The moonlight crept into the darkened house, but it brought no warmth with it. It only served to bring a chill to my already cold body.

My immortal body is very convenient, despite how I neglected taking care of it. I could neglect it as much as I wanted.

I hadn't made anything for dinner yet. I may be immortal, but I get hungry and my joints hurt in the cold. Still, it better suited my personality to bear a bit of discomfort than to find a way to keep warm or eat a bit of nutritious food.

Yes, because no matter what happened, I wouldn't die.

It wouldn't have any effect on my body at all, whether I slept until I was tired of sleeping, or whether I remained awake until I finally succumbed to drowsiness.

The youkai of Gensokyo also lived long lives. There were quite a few who had lived longer than I had. However, they were fundamentally different from me. No matter how strong they are, they would still waste away in the end.

All life crumbles away. Each and every living thing must die. This was the law of the world. If that's the case, then maybe I haven't been living since I drank the elixir. Maybe there was no point in acting to preserve my life anymore. What should I be trying to accomplish?

A slender moon hung outside my window. I could see a ray of some sort of light tracing towards the moon.

Watching the light, I had an unpleasant premonition.

The other day, the vampire had been going on about having finished her moon rocket, and I remembered having the same feeling then.

I sprang from my house without bothering to bring any light.

Far above my head floated the slender moon and the long, thin ray of light.

I headed towards Eientei, deep within the bamboo forest.

"Unrest seized the party as soon as they heard that sitting before them was the elixir of immortality. Because they found themselves unable to move, they couldn't throw the jar into the crater. Even so, Iwakasa tried to light the jar on fire, but... For some reason, it wouldn't catch fire. Seeing no other choice, they decided to spend the night on the summit, trying to figure out what to do next."

"Sakuyahime was originally a water goddess with the power to ward against flame. That's probably why they couldn't light the jar on fire."

I spent the evening wheedling the fine details of his orders from the emperor out of Iwakasa. I wanted to know why he had come all the way up here to dispose of the elixir of immortality.

According to Iwakasa, the jar was a Hourai jar, and its contents were called the Hourai Elixir. The Hourai Elixir was thought to surely be an elixir of immortality.

It was probably left by Kaguya Houraisan when she returned to the moon, as a token of thanks to the old woodcutter who'd raised her and the Emperor whose heart she'd stolen. The old man had said he didn't need to live forever and passed away, and the Emperor said there was no point in living forever in a world without Kaguya, so he ordered it to be taken to the point closest to the moon and burned. It seems that Iwakasa had been chosen to fulfill that duty.

The elixir of immortality, and the old man and the Emperor who, when it was presented before them, wouldn't lift a finger. It was difficult for me to understand. Iwakasa had anticipated this sort of doubt. He was afraid his men would be unable to carry out his orders if they knew about the elixir of immortality, so he kept it a secret.

I wonder what would have happened if his men had known about the elixir all along. They probably wouldn't have tried something so foolish as to steal it and drink it themselves. It's unthinkable that they'd want to live a life as hard and poor as mine forever.

The people who want immortality are usually wealthy people who live life without inconvenience. The poor of spirit saw the elixir of immortality as a medicine that could bring them inestimable wealth and status.

Maybe they'd catch each other trying to steal it and kill each other in a horrible bloodbath. Maybe someone would secretly replace the real elixir with a fake. Iwakasa was worried about things like this, so he didn't tell anyone too much about his mission.

"The night was cloaked in an uncanny atmosphere. We all formed a circle and placed the jar in the middle. The soldiers naturally fell into a pattern of watching over the jar in pairs. It seemed nobody trusted anyone else alone with it."

At first I was too nervous to sleep, but eventually the weariness of climbing the mountain set in and I fell into a deep slumber.

"...Up."

Somebody's voice calling to me woke me up. The voice belonged to Sakuyahime.

"While you and that man have been asleep, these foolish humans have decided to take the contents of the jar as their own and have begun killing each other."

Once I woke up, I was speechless at the sea of blood that surrounded me.

"At the time, I couldn't think too clearly about what had just happened. Sakuyahime said the men had started killing each other, but now that I think of it the scene of the incident didn't lend itself to such a simple explanation. Some of the bodies laying before me were burned to a crisp. It was as if some great battle must have occurred, or some mysterious creature had suddenly attacked. There's no way that Iwakasa and I could have slept through all of that."

"So, you think that Sakuyahime killed those men?"

"Yes. I think she killed them all and left me and Iwakasa alive. Maybe it was because she couldn't let someone cast the elixir of immortality into her mountain, or she wanted to make sure nobody would drink the elixir... I'm sure she left Iwakasa and me alive because there was something she wanted the two of us to do afterwards."

Sakuyahime awoke Iwakasa in the same manner. The shock left him speechless, and realizing that he could no longer fulfill his mission, he finally swallowed her explanation.

Sakuyahime began to speak to Iwakasa and I where we sat enveloped in darkness.

"The elixir is a tool meant to deceive foolish humans. See? Even though nobody said anything about it, everyone around it has fallen into misfortune. I certainly approve of you setting out to dispose of such a thing... but it is too much even for me to bear. So, please forget about throwing it into this mountain."

Iwakasa was lost in thought for a moment, but then he started telling Sakuyahime about about his mission.

"I was told to take this elixir to the point closest to the moon and burn it there. Is there any point higher than this? Is there any mountain higher than this mountain?"

"I see. Then, I know of a suitable place. To the northwest of this mountain there is an incredible peak called Yatsugatake. My elder sister lives there. She is the deity with power over the immortal and unchanging, so that would be the most fitting place to dispose of this elixir."

"But, Yatsugatake isn't high enough, is it? It's quite low compared to this mountain."

"No. In fact, it was once much taller than my mountain is."

"Really? This is the first I've heard of that..."

"Long ago, there was a quarrel between us... well, that's not important, in any case, I believe the distance to the moon may be somewhat shorter atop that mountain."

"I see... In that case, I plan to descend immediately and head to Yatsugatake. I'm sorry my men caused you so much trouble."

Iwakasa said this in a trembling voice, and it seemed to mollify Sakuyahime, as she disappeared into the mountain's crater.

"Our descent from the mountain was incredibly gloomy. Iwakasa just carried the heavy jar and walked straight ahead, never looking in my direction. We didn't speak a word the whole way down."

The heavy silence persisted. The unchanging scenery and the pointlessness of our ascent weighed on me as well. I kept switching my gaze between Iwakasa, the burden he shouldered and the rocky expanse beneath my feet. I laid eyes on nothing else.

"They say little people are easily possessed. Suddenly, I remembered my original objective: that in the beginning, I'd meant to steal this jar. And then, it appeared right before my eyes. Now, I could..."

That's what I was thinking, but I bore no ill will towards Iwakasa. I was even grateful to him for helping me. Could I really steal the jar from him and run away...?

Still, I couldn't get something that Sakuyahime had said out of my head.

Those words would turn my reality on its head.

I felt strange, like the area around my ears were covered with cotton, or like I was peeking through a hole in a cloth covering my head.

That magic word that made it seem like no matter how little care you gave for the consequences, everything would somehow turn out over the course of eternity.

...Immortality.

"Before I realized what I was doing, I kicked Iwakasa as hard as I could down a sudden decline in the path. Then I took the jar and ran."

In the dead of night, the bamboo forest had an eerie feeling about it, as if something were perpetually about to appear from the mist.

But I wasn't afraid of a man-eating wolf or a cursed spirit appearing.

I was no longer afraid of death.

I no longer had to worry about starving.

I ran as if possessed towards Eientei.

That's right, the reason I was no longer afraid of the boredom of immortal life was because she was here!

The terror of immortality is eternal solitude. An endless reality tormented by the consciousness of one's sins.

The only one who could sympathize with that was my old immortal enemy.

I was afraid that she would no longer be at Eientei.

I remembered when I heard she had first returned to the moon 1300 years ago. That's why I felt uneasy when I heard about the vampire trying to get to the moon.

And now, today. Their rocket has finally taken off.

It was one more way for people from Earth to go to the moon or rather, for Lunarians to return to the moon.

In the distance I saw the lights of Eientei. Seeing them made me feel a bit more at ease.

"...Three hundred years after becoming immortal I was so burdened with regrets I could die. Well, except I couldn't die. I wondered why I did something like that."

"It seems I've made you recall something quite unpleasant by bringing up Sakuyahime."

"No, don't worry about it. It happened long, long ago. Why am I talking about this anyway...?"

"We started talking about Youkai Mountain, which led us to Sakuyahime."

"Youkai Mountain...? Oh, right. That's it... Umm..."

"Youkai Mountain is Iwanagahime's mountain. Iwanagahime is Sakuyahime's elder sister, so..."

"Sakuyahime's older sister...? I think I've heard that before... Oh, yes, now I see."

So the elixir I'd stolen had originally been destined to be put to rest by Iwakasa at Youkai Mountain.

"So, that means Youkai Mountain is Yatsugatake, right?"

"Well, not exactly. Yatsugatake was a mountain that was about as high as Mount Fuji, long ago. One day, an argument arose over which mountain was higher, Mount Fuji or Yatsugatake. So, someone decided to settle the question by setting up a water trough connecting the two summits. Water would flow downwards towards the shorter one, so it would be obvious which one was shorter. After a long time spent in preparation, they finally released the water. When that happened, water began flowing down towards Mount Fuji. In other words, Yatsugatake was taller than Mount Fuji."

"Huh, it was really that tall..."

"Sakuyahime, who lived at Mount Fuji, wouldn't stand for a mountain taller than hers, so she broke apart Yatsugatake until it was quite a small mountain."

"...Amazing."

"However, her older sister, Iwanagahime, was tired of her sister's attitude, and moved to Yatsugatake. Since she had control over the unchanging, Mount Fuji lost its inextinguishable flame. This is why Mount Fuji is no longer an active volcano. And so, the Gensokyo's spiritual mountain, Youkai Mountain, is thought of as the original form of Yatsugatake, before it was destroyed by Sakuyahime."

"I see... So I remembered seeing that smoke because it was originally the smoke that rose from Mount Fuji. I guess it's part of my karma to spend so long living close to that mountain..."

Keine said "That is the extent of my knowledge of the history behind Youkai Mountain," and our conversation ended.

...I finally reached Eientei.

Of course, I couldn't just enter through the front like anyone else, so I thought I'd look inside a window to see what was going on.

Youkai from Gensokyo were trying to reach the lunar capital.

Would they really be able to get there safely in a rocket like that?

Wouldn't they just get there in such a horrible state they'd have to come right back?

That's what I was thinking at the rocket completion party a few days ago.

But, I'd forgotten something terribly important.

My one and only rival, Kaguya, had said that she was a Lunarian. And, of course, I'd even become immortal because she had left the elixir here after returning to the moon.

In other words, what I should have been worried about was whether the fact that someone had come up with a way to get to the moon meant that Kaguya was going to go back.

The windows of Eientei were rounder than most buildings' windows in Gensokyo. Maybe it symbolizes the full moon. I wonder if all buildings in the lunar capital have windows like these.

Voices drifted out through the window. It seemed everyone was gathered together.

In the sky, a trail of light of what seemed to be the vampire's rocket could be seen.

While carefully paying attention in a way I wouldn't be found, I raised and strained my ear as much as I could.

"...So the lunar invader was the vampire..."

I could hear a voice from inside the room. It seemed like whoever was inside was looking out the window. Quickly, I crouched down and hid under the window.

"...Will they really be alright trying to fly to the moon in that shoddy rocket?"

I could hear Kaguya's voice. She was talking about the vampire's rocket. Of course, she's a Lunarian, so she'd be interested in a rocket like that. If somebody built a safer rocket, would she think about going back to the moon?

Judging from their conversation, it seems the rocket idea hadn't come from Eientei, but the vampire had gotten it from someone else.

So, they were the lunar invaders, or would-be invaders. It seemed that the vampire and her friends were probably being manipulated by someone.

"...They'll probably regret it if they do make it to the moon."

"...Well, no matter what sort of plans they have in mind, the difference in power between Yorihime and that vampire with her three stooges is absolute, I think."

Three stooges? Images of the shrine maiden, the magician and the maid floated into my head, and I had to hold back laughter. They did seem pretty air-headed.

"...Well, we can't see that big bottle rocket anymore, so let's stop talking about the moon."

"...That's right. We're already eternal Earthlings now."

Youkai Mountain, said to give off the eternal smoke of Iwanagahime.

Just what would have happened if I'd gone to dispose of the elixir of immortality in that mountain, just like Sakuyahime said?

I probably would have concluded my short life without having spent so much time consumed by my own sins.

I probably would've ended my miserable life consumed by my grudge for Kaguya.

But, I definitely wouldn't have lived to see these days, over thirteen hundred years later.

And that means that another immortal human would have been lonely.

I stopped worrying about whether Kaguya would return to the moon. Even if she wanted to go back, she had no obligation to tell me, and it seemed like she didn't want to go back anymore, anyway.

Besides, I remembered that I had other undying friends here in Gensokyo.

...Like Youkai Mountain.

I think I'll climb that mountain some day. The youkai of the mountain, like the tengu and the kappa, have made it their base now, so it probably isn't easy to climb anymore, but a goddess of immortality lives atop it.

I think I'll climb up there and tell her all about how I became immortal, and apologize for what happened to Iwakasa, thirteen hundred years after we should have reached the top of that mountain.

Feeling somewhat refreshed, I left Eientei.

As anybody living on this Earth knows, the moon always shows the same side as it orbits the planet. No matter where and when on the Earth, the moon does not appear to change.

Because of this, the moon was thought of as a picture drawn on the roof of the heavens.[1] Because the patterns on the surface were consistent, people compared them to a number of different images. The rabbit is one of them.

How can the moon show the same face and orbit at the same time? It is simply because the moon's rotation period and orbital period are highly synchronized. If the moon can rotate once at the same time it orbits the Earth once, it can orbit without showing its back. It's like a hammer throw or a ball in a net. In the same time it takes for the ball to revolve around the thrower, the ball itself makes a complete revolution.

Yet there are still questions, such as why the moon came to possess such an orbital period.

Did the residents of the moon make it so that they can live their luxurious lives while concealing themselves from the people of Earth? Or was the Lunar Capital so heavy that centrifugal force made it face the outside...?

However, she, Yukari Yakumo, knew that the reason was quite scientific yet foolish.

Since explaining the reason using physical properties of gravity and how it operates when large planets are present would be too easy, too scientific, and so unfitting for Gensokyo, she had to think up another reason.

Gensokyo was separated from the outside world by a border of common sense, and it existed within the borders of uncommon sense. To maintain the border as the way it was, everything needed a backside.

-The night of the new moon.

When the moon is shrouded in shadow and becomes invisible, the moon on that night is called a "new moon". But why is it called that? People like us who are more accustomed to the solar year would not know this, yet we don't think of it as strange.

I often make trips to the lake of Gensokyo to see the moon. Tonight is like any other, and I gazed at the new moon. Of course, there was nothing reflected on the lake.

Yet I was able to see the bright backside of the moon that was bathed in sunlight.

"Lady Yukari."

The fox in front of me calls my name. This fox, Ran Yakumo, is my loyal shikigami.

"Lady Yukari. It appears the vampire's rocket is finished. I went to have a look myself, but I worry about their well-being if they are going to journey on such a thing."

Saying that, Ran's mouth bent into a smile. Whether the smile was laughter at the vampire's rocket or an untrusting snicker at me, who had done nothing in response to the vampire's plans despite the information we had gathered. I wished it was the latter.

"Ah, that must have been a rather busy party, then. But why was I not invited?"

I already knew Ran had secretly attended the party.

"Well, I wasn't there because I wanted to be. I was just spying to see what it was like... Should I have called you as well?"

"Of course, although if you asked me, I would've gladly turned you down. Anyway, do you remember the orbital period of the moon?"

"Huh? The moon's orbital period...? On average it's said to be about twenty-eight days, but actually it's only about twenty-seven and one-third days. But since the Earth is rotating around the sun as well, if one period is starting from a new moon, the time it takes to go from the full moon and back to the new moon is said to be thirty days, yet that, too, is actually shorter, being twenty-nine and one-half days. However, wouldn't you be more knowledgeable about it?"

"You're right. The orbital period is not twenty-eight days, nor is the period of waxing and waning a full thirty days. This is an important fact."

In the lunar calendar, the new moon is the first day, and as it was the rebirth of the moon, the moon on this night was called a "new moon." In a similar manner the moon on the third night was called "mikazuki"[2] and the fifteenth night, "juu-goya"[3] was a full moon. In such ways the moon matched the dates. The lives of people back then was centered much more around the moon's cycle.

"In order for there to be a new moon on the first night and a full moon on the fifteenth, a month would need to be thirty days."

"Yes, that would be so."

"But in reality, the moon's orbital period is not thirty days. Because of that, the fifteenth night is rarely a full moon. Don't you think that is unnatural?"

With my question, the fox in front of me went into thought.

"The night of the fifteenth should be a perfect night... True. Perhaps somebody moved it on purpose?"

"That's not it. I think you know, but the rotation period as well as the orbital period is twenty-seven days and a third... I would like you to go look for the reason for me."

Although I said to look for the reason, I wanted her to think of it herself. If it's just research work a shikigami would suffice. In the outside world there are increasingly more people who become devoted to their shikigami and turn into empty shells. By asking for something more from a shikigami than their usual tasks, I am trying to improve the boredom of everyday life.

"*Sigh* Very well, I suppose. Anyway, back to the vampire's rocket..."

-The night of mikazuki.

The moon of mikazuki is also called a sword. It probably comes from somebody picturing those sharp points as a sword.

As if to challenge this sword-shaped moon, a large shooting star was climbing into the night sky. I hear that a shooting star burns out because of poison in the atmosphere, but if that is shooting upwards, is the dust of the earth burning out?

"Lady Yukari, can you see?"

"I can see you. No need to come so close."

"No, not me... I mean the glint of light shooting into the sky. It appears the vampire's rocket finally launched. That light is the rocket."

"Mhmhm. Yes, I can see without getting so close."

"I see. As for the light, from its speed I'm guessing that it was calculated to reach the moon by the full moon."

"My, that's quite a leisurely voyage. If they're that slow maybe we'll arrive before them..."

Ran had a puzzled look on her face.

"But I believed we were meant to leave for the moon on the same day, and since we would arrive in an instant, we would reach the moon at the same time as the vampire and the others... And this has been bothering me, Lady Yukari, but why did you make the vampire go to the moon?"

"Oh, but I didn't say a word about wanting them to go to the moon, did I?"

"That's true, but if you wanted to stop them you had more than enough chances to do so. Yet you didn't. The heart of the rocket's power is Reimu's ability, but that's because you made Reimu train. On top of that you brought the topic up to the vampire and even gave them all that time. During all that time you just watched them. Knowing this, how can one say that you didn't want them to go to the moon?"

"...That crescent of the mikazuki is said to be a sword. Seeing that sharp look, it is very understandable. Wouldn't it be seen as sophisticated to shoot a bullet at a sword-shaped moon?"

In the lunar capital, there is one that can wield the sword of the gods. On Earth, there is one that can shoot the bullet of the gods. It's as simple as that.

"Ran, you only need to listen to my orders. On the night of the full moon we will go to the moon through its reflection on this lake. Do not be negligent in your preparations."

-The night of the half moon.

Snow fluttered to the ground. The weather was not optimal tonight, but by the time of the full moon it would surely be clear.

The moon had changed from a sword to a bow. The half moon was also called the "yumihari-zuki"[4] for its bow-like shape.

When it was a sword the weather had been fine, but unfortunately the bow was not visible. Are there none who wield a bow on the moon?

"Lady Yukari. It's cold, so why not go back to the mansion? It seems the moon is not visible tonight anyway."

"Oh, but moon-watching is so much more fun when there is no moon. Maybe the bow-shaped moon is hidden in the basement of the Scarlet Devil Mansion."

"Really? Anyway, the orbital period that we were talking about the other day-"

Ran changed topics. If she let me talk a bit more maybe she would've understood it.[5]

"It seems that it is highly likely that the orbital period was changed."

"What do you mean by that?"

"Originally, the moon was meant to undergo a full rotation in exactly twenty-eight days. But the strange rotation period slightly interfered with the orbital period."

Ran started to explain the properties of gravity as it works on a rotating planet. The moon changes itself to an oval shape due to Earth's gravity and its own gravity's work. That slight change in shape changes the gravity that works on it and accelerates the orbital period. When the rotation period is shorter than the orbital period, it slows its rotation period, and when the rotation period is longer, it speeds up the rotation period.

Ran explained the work of gravity on two points using actual numbers.

"For such reasons, there is a high possibility that someone tampered with the rotation period and slowed down its orbital period. When its rate is changed by two thirds of a day, it is not within the usual margin of error."

"And your conclusion?"

"The only reason why one would do such a thing is to constantly observe the Earth by facing the same side towards it while removing days when it would be completely opposite.*1 In this way, one would be able to observe the Earth throughout the entire year... though, this would be quite some time ago."

When it comes to simple calculations, there would be nothing that can rival a shikigami. But in the outside world the calculation of gravity is said to be very difficult when there are more than three points affecting it. The calculation of gravity is said to be a trial even with the shikigami of today.

But in reality, it is not the shikigami themselves, but the orders of these shikigami that cannot process it. If one orders a shikigami, it will always give an answer with simple calculation methods.

Needless to say, what I wanted was not something so boring.

"Ah, thank you. But that's one of the faults of shikigami, isn't it?"

"Excuse me?"

"You get an answer instantly."

"That's true. I thought you wanted me to research something else, but unfortunately I'm a shikigami and can only do things under your command."

"Oh, you're depressing me and the vampire is going to the moon. How entirely dull."

"...It's about a week until a full moon, and there's nobody who will lend us their hand."

"You're making it sound as if people don't like me, but there are several who are willing to help out. About seven, eight... perhaps nine will, just counting who immediately comes to mind."

"That many? Hmm... I wonder if something happened without me knowing?"

"You can do calculations on astronomical levels and yet it seems like you can't add single digits."

-The day before the full moon.

A moon that was almost as big as a full moon had risen in the night sky. Although on Earth the moon is very bright, on a full moon it means that night falls on the backside of the moon. Around now it's probably dusk on the moon's backside.

"Our second trip to the moon is, at long last, tomorrow."

"Lady Yukari, although I trust you I can't help but be worried when I know nothing about the current plans. Shall you inform me of the plans once we're there?"

"Mhmhm, I guess I should inspect the orders I gave you."

"That would be helpful. But it seems so different from the last time you made an attack on the moon. I hear that in the past you gathered an army of the strongest youkai around and they were full of zeal and enthusiasm. Even then you were not victorious yet this time... excuse me for the way I say this... but it seems very lax. We lack numbers, we have no plan and, forgive me for saying, but I doubt you're going to have any chance against them."

"I'll tell you one very important thing."

I looked at the moon with its slightly dull edge. When that bit becomes lit the moon will be accessible from the Earth. It was not long ago that this became possible, only about a thousand years ago.

"The residents of Earth can never beat the residents of the moon."

Ran had a puzzled look on her face.

"Huh? We can never beat...?"

"The Lunarians possess highly advanced technology, unyielding stamina and abilities that far outmatch those of youkai. The ones living on Earth can never beat those on the moon, especially in the lunar capital."

"Th-Then why have you, now of all times, decided to attack the moon!? Isn't that strange? You really don't believe what you just said, right?"

"No, I really do not think that we stand a chance against them."

"...Then what are we doing tomorrow?"

"A new resident of Gensokyo has arrived from the moon. We must receive something in return. Residential tax, so to speak."

"Excuse me? What do you mean by that?"

Gensokyo is full of inhabitants that do as they like, but such freedom is not something that is promised. For everybody to live their lives with the least bit of freedom there needs to be a certain extent of rule. That rule will create a certain extent of hindrance to freedom, but that hindrance is necessary for freedom.

For example, humans of Gensokyo are constantly under the threat of being attacked by youkai, but they need to live with that threat to live in Gensokyo.

Youkai need to attack people because if they don't do so, their very existence will be at risk, so youkai will attack humans.

The lives of those who live in Gensokyo are maintained by the youkai. If there were no youkai in Gensokyo, Gensokyo would collapse. Thus, humans will not forget the fear that they have for the youkai and yet will not exterminate the youkai that might attack them, since doing so would destroy Gensokyo.

The opposite is also true, and if youkai didn't have any humans to attack, the youkai would lose the meaning of their existence. Thus, youkai may attack humans but do not eat them recklessly. Humans from the village are generally not for their eating under the agreement in place.

"The new residents that are from the moon chose to live as human and not as youkai. Thus the ones at Eientei chose to be humans."

I added "save that rabbit" at the end, as that was not able to become human no matter how hard it tried.

"Human...? That clan of aliens? ...Umm, I cannot see them as humans no matter how hard I try..."

"Oh, but it's not a matter of looks. They do not follow the rules of youkai and are trying to enter human society, are they not?"

They sell medicine and look after the sick. Such actions are "work" in human society and differ from those in youkai society.

"True, they have not come to associate with youkai like us. The people of the town seem to think of them as strange humans, though..."

"Yet they do not fulfill the role of humans in Gensokyo."

The humans in the outside world have roles they must fulfill, too: learning, working and being a part of society, including paying taxes. Gensokyo then adds dealing with youkai to the list.

"The roles of humans, you say? Come to think about it, that's right. They do not fear youkai, and their existence can destroy the power balance between the humans and the youkai. ...But what does that have to do with the invasion of the moon?"

"I already told you that, didn't I? I want residential tax. Even if they do strengthen the humans to the extent of healing and caring for their wounds, I don't mind. But they are not fulfilling their roles in paying tax, and thus cannot be a part of human society.

"...Then do you plan to steal something from the capital as tax payment, because they are immigrants from the moon?"

Ran asked as if she realized the answer as she said it. I was content because my answer was understood for once.

"Yes, that's the idea. It would be impossible to invade the lunar capital, but wouldn't it be easy enough to sneak in? I would like you to carry out that task."

-The long awaited night of the full moon finally came.

The cresent moon a sword, the half moon a bow. What can the full moon be called?

A mirror.

A large mirror that reflects the sunlight, and at the same time illuminates the darkness of the Earth. The most light comes from the full moon. While it may seem as if it were the worst night for youkai, why is it that they are the most powerful under the light of the moon?

The reason for that is because the light not only illuminates, but gives rise to shadows as well.

Under the dim light of the moon, all sorts of things blanket the Earth in shadows, such as grasses, trees, mountains, rocks and buildings. With light as weak as moonlight, it is impossible to eliminate these shadows. And they are the birthplace of humanity's fears, sometimes creating legends of youkai. In a manner of speaking, the moon gave birth to all youkai.

I gazed at the moon's reflection on the lake. It appeared to be floating on something rather than hanging in the sky. Thinking of it that way, the moon in the sky seemed as if it was just a picture.

As I was sitting on the surface of the lake, Ran came to my side.

"It seems that the sun has set completely."

"You're late. I almost thought you weren't coming until the break of dawn."

"Oh no, it is still merely nightfall. The night is only beginning."

The reflection of the moon was a tangible illusion. The far-off moon in the sky was a picture on the roof of the heavens. They were essentialy the same.

I modified the borders of the illusionary moon and its picture to create a passage between Earth and the moon.

"Lady Yukari, hasn't the vampire's rocket reached the moon by now?"

"They must surely be causing a racket, then. Perhaps they are even learning a very good lesson around now."

"So the vampire was just a diversion?"

"Well... I suppose you would not be mistaken in believing that."

"?"

I closed my umbrella and thrust it into the illusionary moon floating on the lake. The umbrella remained standing on the water and showed no signs of sinking.

The moon on the surface of the lake wavered and, after a brief contraction, expanded. By the time the moon reached its maximum size, it began to break apart from the point where the umbrella had been stabbed into it.

The cracks in the center of the moon became several centimeters thick. As the moon broke apart on the water, an opening to another place was starting to appear. A crisp scent wafted from the other side.

On the other side of this crack was the surface of the moon, where the vampire and the others had already arrived. By entering this fissure one could instantaneously arrive on the moon.

They had spent months to create their shabby rocket and spent more than ten days in a miserable, cramped space to go to the moon.

It was idiotic. If all that is needed to go to the moon, it is possible to do so in an instant. This is Gensokyo; one need not imitate the magic of the outside world here.

But I already knew that the vampire and her cohorts would not agree with my plan.

Those vampires have the spirit that I've forgotten. The feeling that the humans outside have begun to forget about and the feeling that shikigami whose thoughts centered around efficiency despised.

-The fun that would come from travelling in a miserable, shabby rocket. Anything gained through the shortest method has no meaning to it. It was the spirit of enjoying hard work.

Long-living humans and youkai often forgot that mindset, but that vampire and the others still had a powerful desire for it. That was why they neglected to go to the moon using my powers and insisted on going to the moon by their own hand.

"It's almost time. Finally, the time has come to counterattack on the Lunarians."

"Indeed. However, Ran, before we say goodbye to Earth, I'll give you a hint of what to do once we get there."

"A hint? If you could order me, I would be much more grateful."

"Even if it was an order, it's more fun to think about it by one's self, right?"

"Well, I suppose."

"We spoke about the orbital period a few days ago. The orbital period is shorter than was expected. I'll tell you the reason for that."

"That's very interesting... but that's the hint?"

"The reason why the moon's orbital period is shorter than twenty-eight days is because that is the mousetrap that was set a long, long time ago."

"?"

"Here is a hypothetical situation. Let's say there was a youkai that was able to connect the Earth and the moon using the full moon."

"That would be you, correct?"

"I said it was hypothetical. Naturally, this youkai who knew that she could easily make such a pathway thought about sneaking into the Lunar Capital for sport."

The pathway at our feet was just about big enough for a person to pass through. I jumped into the pathway and the first thing to come was the blinding light of the daytime moon. I could see a sky full of stars and an endlessly expansive body of water. It was the sea of the moon.

Ran arrived after I did.

We would come here every month, so Ran wasn't surprised. From here, I kept watch over the state on Earth by turning a crow into a shikigami. Needless to say, I was mimicking the doings of the Lunarians.

"...That youkai opened a path to the moon through the heavens on the fifteenth night, and decided to sneak in. ...But this is still a hypothetical situation."

"Right."

"There was little information about the Lunar Capital and one couldn't start without going there first. The long awaited fifteenth night had come and that youkai jumped into the moon on the lake surface... What do you think she saw there?"

"A sea as far as the eye can see?"

"Correct, well done. The moon was covered with a very beautiful sea and the youkai knew instantaneously that the way back would be to go through the planet that was reflected on its surface."

I jammed my umbrella into the cracks that we just took so it wouldn't close, and bent the umbrella into the way that we would take from here. The umbrella took on a deformed shape after being bent a few times.

"Lady Yukari, what are you doing by bending your umbrella like that...?"

"A secret. It's like a good luck charm. Anyway, back to my hypothetical situation. After preparing a way back, the youkai felt assured and traveled to the Lunar Capital."

"And this is still... hypothetical, correct?"

"I don't like to repeat myself too many times. That youkai looked for a way to break the barrier that surrounds the Lunar Capital. The barrier was more complex than she expected and would take her a long time."

I started on the way towards the moon's capital. Ran hurriedly followed.

"Finally, finding a key to breaking the barrier, the youkai tried to enter the capital. However, the capital was well protected and the youkai came to the conclusion that she didn't have enough power at the moment, or it would take too much time. The smart youkai thought to retreat for the moment being and think of a plan."

"..."

"Easily brushing off the Lunarian pursuers, the youkai made her way back to the path that she'd taken to come to the moon. Only to be shocked at what she saw."

Ran remained silent. She was probably too wrapped up in my story.

"The path had slowly started to close and was no longer a size that the youkai could go through. The youkai was shocked, 'Why was the pathway closing? If it is the fifteenth night there should be no way that it would close.'"

"And then what happened? Oh, I mean, what happened in the hypothetical situation?"

"The youkai who had no way to return had to surrender. Since she was up against those that she could not defeat."

"I-Is that so... Um, and why did that hypothetical situation end so poorly?"

"What are you saying? The question was why the moon's orbital period is not twenty-eight days, but twenty-seven and a third of a day. Correct?"

"Oh, right."

"By telling you that much, you should understand, right? The fifteenth night used to be a perfect full moon, but by somebody's doing, probably a Lunarian sage, the rotational period was changed and orbital period was altered. Before you knew it the fifteenth night was no longer a night of the perfect full moon. Thus the full moon would close quicker than expected."

"So what you're saying is that it was a trap that a Lunarian sage thought of to trap the youkai that would find its way into the moon using the full moon?"

"Exactly, a trap that was set for a very long time by the much-despised Lunarian sage."

It was from that time that one could not make a month thirty days and Earth's calendar was in confusion. The Lunarians did not care about how the Earth would be affected, only about not letting the full moon exactly coincide with the fifteenth night, and altered the orbit of the moon. To those on the moon, Earth only existed to look down upon, so they never took their case into account.

The sea of the moon was very quiet and only the slight sound of the waves could be heard. The sound of the waves was not of a sea filled with nature but only the sound made by the water molecules bumping into each other. That was because there was no life in the seas of the moon.

"Although it was a hypothetical situation, it was very helpful. But thinking from the hint..."

"What is it?"

Ran seemed to be choosing her words carefully, not being able to respond. Although her calculation abilities were high, her language abilities might not be sufficient.

"Wouldn't... it mean that right now we're right in the trap that the Lunarian sage had set? If it would take time to get to the Lunar Capital, by the time we come back it wouldn't be a full moon any more. Not to mention breaking the barrier around the Capital itself would also take some time, right?"

"Oh my, I didn't notice that."

"No, please don't joke around. We're in enemy territory and the slightest of mistakes can lead to disaster. Of course I believe that you have some kind of plan..."

"Well, if we no longer have a way back, we can ask for a ride on the vampire's rocket. She should be on the moon by now. Or did we arrive first?"

"Honestly, I can never tell when you are serious or not. That rocket might have fallen apart on impact with the sea for all we know. Although you probably never saw it, it was really a poorly built piece of junk."

Ran acted as if she was upset but she had to do exactly as I said so she had to trust me.

"So, it was that poorly built? If so, it might have even burned up en route... unless it had a trick up its sleeve."

The moon was unthinkably silent compared to the Gensokyo that was constantly noisy from bickering between humans and youkai.

Humans sought the bustle and glamour of urban life, and before they knew it, the Earth was rid of silence. If even Gensokyo being a rural area was noisy, the outside world was even more so.

Yet the Lunar Capital was even more technologically advanced. That means this city on the other side of the moon should be very noisy. If they are living in peaceful prosperity, that would only be a sign of decay. Or perhaps it could mean an incomparably advanced civilization.

Whether it was decay or pure heaven, I hated it. I needed the noise of the city.

With that in mind, thinking that the vampire and the others were somewhere on this quiet moon causing a racket made me feel nostalgic.

The sky of the Lunar Capital is dark even during the day. It makes me wonder if dawn will never come. Since it's possible to see without any lights, "dark" may not be appropriate. It would be better to say the sky is just "black."

Space is dark in the first place. So it's only natural for the skies of the planets that float within space to be dark, too.

Just because a planet is bathed in sunlight doesn't mean that it's daytime skies are blue, either. The sun's light is not blue and neither are the atmospheres surrounding those planets.

Then why is Earth's sky so blue?

That's because the atmosphere bends the rays of light most prone to refraction (violet and blue in the visible light spectrum) and diffuses them, making the sky look blue. Earth's atmosphere has just the right thickness to make the sky look blue. If the atmosphere was a bit thicker, the blue light would've completely dispersed and a red sky would result. There is a point in time where the sky on Earth turns red. Depending on the time this occurs, people call it "sunrise" or "sunset."

If the atmosphere was to become even thicker, then even the red light would completely disperse and Earth would become a planet of constant night, since no light would reach its surface. Conversely, if the atmosphere was to be much thinner, the light would come in without bending and the sky would be dark except in the spot where the light shines.

The moon was the latter. The dark daytime sky was now covered in colourful stars.

"-'Stardust Reverie!'"

The human in black flew into the air and shouted something.

Through some incomprehensible process, star-shaped objects rained down indiscriminately in Princess Yorihime's direction.

There shouldn't be anything to fear from such a scattered, blind attack. It was almost like a child swinging its arms in circles while running towards its opponent.

"Hey, it doesn't look like those stars will hurt if one hits..."

"Even if it doesn't hurt, you can't get hit by them. That's why you need to gracefully evade them."

"Hmm, then wouldn't the one who can shoot more projectiles be at an advantage?"

"There may be limits to how many it is possible to fire at once. I don't know if it's because of the law of conservation of energy, or depending on entropy limits though..."

The moon rabbits chattered as if it had nothing to do with them. I think the reason was to minimize the effect on the ecosystem. Anyway, I thought shooting far too many when a single hit was enough was a little...

Princess Yorihime dodged the colorful galaxy without any problem. She was agile like a celestial swimming through the rain and nimble as a rabbit that ran on earth.

The moon rabbits became excited, positive of their victory watching Princess Yorihime's fight. Everyone seemed to want to stand on the front lines and show off when it was only a while before that they were all fleeing in fright of the vampire. They all seemed to be thinking that they were able to win as well, witnessing Princess Yorihime's strength and feeling her godly presence.

But would I have been able to dodge that attack?

I had heard that the humans of Earth were frail and weak, but the human in front of us looked way too strong for me to handle. Princess Yorihime looked confident, but if by some small chance something were to happen, would I be able to take the full force of their attack? And if not, would they invade the Lunar Capital?

"Watch out for stray bullets!"

The moment that I thought I heard the human shout something, a huge star-shaped object grazed my ear and ruffled my hair.

Watching from far away, I thought the stars were made of clusters of light or heat. Differing from my perception, the star felt solid. A cold sweat ran down my back.

What was I doing in the front lines of this raging battle in the first place?

I originally sang songs and lived every day pounding rice cakes. Every day was boring, yet peaceful. During the day we'd continuously pound rice cakes and at the night we'd play shogi while drinking sake. Those days now feel like so long ago.

Although we call them "rice cakes" what was actually in the mortar was not rice but medicine. We were trying to make a medicine called the "Hourai Elixir" that would provide eternal youth and everlasting life.

We do not know the intentions behind this since we rabbits were taught only to pound the medicine.

We were taught that the pounding of the rice cakes was for the atonement of Lady Chang'e[1]. You could say that all of the work that we moon rabbits do does not benefit us in any way, yet we are made to do it every single day and we have no idea when it may end. Despite pounding away for thousands of years, it feels as if no progress has been made. To others of my kind, this rice cake pounding has become a mere routine that has no meaning behind it.

I didn't want to pound rice cakes for eternity to atone for the sins of someone else. This job did not permit using my head and offered no feelings of accomplishment, only manual labor. I never had to worry about surviving, but it wasn't productive and required no thought. I thought it was a job only suitable for the lowest class.

And that is why I ran away.

I thought that rabbits should have more freedom, that we were more capable than menial labor. Now that I think of it, ones who are skilled but think they can't use their skills in that environment will never amount to anything. I was your garden-variety fool.

Being a fool, I told myself that if my job was not constructive, running away from it was justifiable and society was at fault for being unable to utilize me to the best of my ability. Of course, that was an excuse I told myself to maintain my cool while I was running away.

However, the Lunar Capital was too small and even if I ran, I would be caught right away.

So I fled not only from my job, but also from the capital. I decided without hesitation on escaping to the impure Earth. I heard that one of us moon rabbits had once escaped to Earth so I planned on pursuing her.

-There was a huge roar.

It seemed that the human used a grand technique but was easily overpowered by Princess Yorihime so she was declared the victor. Princess Yorihime held out a large divine mirror which as its name implies reflected light in a godly manner.

"Aww, it would've been better if Princess Yorihime had held back a bit."

The rabbit to my side tried to talk to me. I was still in a panic, not understanding the situation completely, when she added "At this rate, we won't get a turn at all."

I sighed as I thought of how just moments ago everybody was running scared of the vampire. "I know, at this rate all the training I did will be for nothing," I replied, although I'd probably lose.

The other rabbits were also talking tough, but they were probably thinking the same thing I was. They all thought they could do it if given the chance, but when the time came, they wouldn't be able to do a thing. They likely don't have the power to make their own chances.

"Did any of you get hit by stray bullets?"

Princess Yorihime came back with a cool expression.

"That was wonderful. It seemed like you handled her easily."

"It's dangerous to be overconfident, but one must retain their composure. You all seem overconfident despite having none."

"Oh, come on, if it's a human of that level, we can beat her up in a flash."

"Precisely, you are overconfident."

A disgusted look appeared on the princess's face.

"Well, it seems that vampire is up next. Well, she will probably be the easiest to beat... but by the way, you there."

Princess Yorihime looked towards me. I tensed up with the thought that she might tell me to fight the vampire.

"M-Me? No, no... I don't think that I can..."

"What are you talking about? I want you to run an errand for me."

She whispered it into my ear.

"Huh? You're entrusting me with such an important task?"

"I think it's the perfect task for you since you look so reserved. I really meant to do this myself but the ones from Earth are stronger than I expected. Now go, there might not be too much time left."

I think it was about 3 or 4 months ago that I grew tired of pounding rice cakes, ran from the Lunar Capital and fled to Earth.

There was supposed to be one of us down on Earth as well as some wanted fugitives...

The lunar veil was a mysterious robe that allowed one to fly through the skies. At the same time it made one lose their spirit when they wore it, so the wearer would have no control over themselves. I had little use for it while I lived on the moon.

I took the veil and flew towards the earth. My memories of the journey to Earth are vague.

This veil was made so when a Lunarian on Earth was called back to the moon, they would have no lingering attachments to Earth. In the past there was a certain princess by the name of Kaguya that was imprisoned on Earth. This robe was for when she was to return... supposedly.

Although I do not know the details, Princess Kaguya refused to return to the moon and at the same time a sage of the moon decided to remain with her. Although the whereabouts of the sage and the princess have been unknown for more than 1000 years, they are still wanted criminals.

The reason for that is because the leaders of the search party, Princesses Toyohime and Yorihime, have no intention of capturing them. The people of the Lunar Capital vaguely know about this but since it was nothing that could possibly harm them in the short term, everybody forgot about it.

It was just before I made my escape that a strange rumor began to spread. It was said there was someone planning a coup in the Lunar Capital, the suspect being Lady Yagokoro, who was a criminal on Earth.

I later asked Princess Yorihime why such a rumor was spreading and apparently there was someone who had been summoning the gods of the moon without taking proper measures to do so.

Apparently Princess Yorihime, who had the power to call upon the gods at will, was top on the list of suspects and Lady Yagokoro, who had been a wanted yet uncaptured for so long, was also suspicious.

Thankfully, it appeared that the suspicion had cleared up. This was because a shrine maiden that the vampire brought with her was found to be the one who had been summoning the gods.

She called the Sumiyoshi Sanjin to carry a flying box from Earth to the moon. Apparently that was the cause of the rumor that had spread in the Lunar Capital.

Actually, this wasn't the first time I had met the shrine maiden. We had met once on Earth around the same time the rumor had started.

When I first came to Earth, it was not the ruinous wasteland I had heard about. It was a peaceful place with many beautiful trees.

I don't know if I was tired from the long journey or if I had hit some space debris, but I fainted as soon as I landed on Earth. That shrine maiden was the one who took care of me after that.

I had no idea that she was one of the ones who planned on invading the moon.

When I was asleep in the shrine, I heard a voice calling me. A voice calling for me using words that no Earthling should be able to pronounce. I was positive that this was the comrade that I'd heard of and left the shrine.

This comrade was the fellow rabbit that had fled from the moon. However, the voice was actually that of the wanted sage, Lady Yagokoro.

From that very moment, my journey had started in a direction that I had never imagined.

I was to return to the Lunar Capital once again but I could not return to the task of pounding rice cakes. It was something that I did out of my own selfishness so I could not protest. In exchange, the task that was placed on me was to be a member of the lunar defense squad.

The defense squad, called the lunar emissaries, was to guard the moon and keep watch over the Earth. The Watatsuki Sisters were the leaders of the defense squad and I learned from Princess Yorihime the ways of battles, etiquette, common knowledge and many other things.

The younger sister of the two, Princess Yorihime was also in command of training the other rabbits. The squad was quite small with fewer than ten members. All of them were inexperienced and probably not that different from me in terms of strength.

None of us had actually experienced warfare, yet Princess Yorihime's training was harsh and if one were to slack off they would receive a severe punishment. This was probably because she thought to continue Lady Yagokoro's will and devote herself to the Lunar Capital, yet she always had a sense of some impending threat.

In sharp contrast to her younger sister, Princess Toyohime usually read books and took strolls, living her days to do as she alone felt. She would come to us on our days off from training and say, "Let's train together." When we tell her that it's our day off, she would walk off looking disappointed. Since she only does this on rest days, she probably has no intention to actually train.

Princess Toyohime was quite popular amongst us rabbits. Nothing stern ever came from her mouth, and since she was a quick thinker who was very knowledgeable, she was very interesting to talk to. What made her even more popular was the fact that she'd sneak some treats like peaches to us during our training.

As one would guess, the ones who came to fend off the vampire's group was Princess Yorihime and us rabbits. I wonder what Princess Toyohime is doing now? Knowing her, she's probably reading books and singing songs at such an important time. I guess she thought it all right to leave the fighting to Princess Yorihime.

"I have returned, Princess!"

Given the important task from Princess Yorihime, I immediately left the battle ground and returned to the residence of the Watatsuki Sisters in the Lunar Capital.

As expected, the mansion was empty and not even the rabbits that were always training were there. Obviously, everyone had left to battle along with Princess Yorihime.

I went through a brief search through the mansion, but Princess Toyohime was nowhere to be seen. Where could she be? At first, I thought that she would've gone with Princess Yorihime, but Princess Yorihime departed for battle without giving any notice to Princess Toyohime.

Princess Yorihime was the one who always taught us about warfare, general studies and manners, but I wonder what she was thinking not giving her sister any word at a time of such crisis? Judging from the fact that nobody mentioned anything to Princess Yorihime about it, I guess it must be how it always is.

Upon arriving in front of Princess Yorihime's room,

I stuttered "P-Pardon me,"

and opened the door when I knew that there would be nobody there. I was tense probably because it was Princess Yorihime's room, and the only times anyone was called there personally, it was almost nothing but bad news.

After entering the room I quickly pulled out a pen and paper and began to write.

"Um... 'Long time, no see. How are you doing?' ...or is this too casual?"

The task that Princess Yorihime had requested of me was to write a letter to Lady Yagokoro.

"I knew that me writing in place of Princess Yorihime would be impossible when I'm not even good at handwriting... I guess I should explain first that she was too busy so I'm writing for her."

I decided to inform Lady Yagokoro of how things had gone and to thank her in my own words.

What I thought when I first met her on Earth, how I was able to deliver the letter safely to my masters, my return to the Lunar Capital without being questioned about why I had fled, and how I ended up living in the house of the Watatsukis...

"'Also, there was a group of invaders from Earth. It's a silly team consisting of one vampire, three humans and three fairies. You seemed to have expected some form of invasion, but did you know something about this little team?'... Hmm, what else should I write?"

I remembered about the shrine maiden that had nursed me back to health on Earth, although she didn't notice me during the battle earlier. Well, I guess it was only natural because when I was down on Earth, I was disguised to look like an Earth rabbit.

The shrine maiden was the central person who had caused the clamor on the moon by calling the gods without permission. Although I had mixed feelings about it, I wrote in the letter, "Please give my thanks to the shrine maiden on Earth."

I read over it many times until the ink dried. I thought it looked very mature for something I'd written. Maybe I could have passed this off as something that Princess Yorihime wrote.

After making sure that the ink was dry, I rolled the paper up and tied it with a cord.

I quickly ran out of the mansion again with the letter.

But this time it was not back to Princess Yorihime's side in battle, but in the completely opposite direction.

I knew it wouldn't take long for me to reach my destination. As I ran, I recalled what happened when I fled from the moon.

I had been told that Earth, unlike the moon, was a world full of impurity and deceit. So I had thought that it would be difficult to even survive unless I constantly kept my guard up, doubted everyone and only trusted myself. That was until Princess Yorihime told me the true meaning of "impurity."

The "impurity" that the Lunar Capital detested was life and death. They believed Earth was a world where simply living invites death. There were even those who called Earth a land of impurity, where every being had to compete to live, and the Moon a "pure land"[3] where that filth had been purified.

A world without life or death is the most beautiful thing, but it's still different from a world which had nothing in it. A world where one did not need to take from others to live and could live by what they had made themselves. That was said to be an ideal world.

On Earth, life was the greatest thing possible so the fragrance of death became stronger. It was said to be that fragrance of death that brought such a thing as a lifespan. Therefore all that live on the Earth have a lifespan.

The shrine maiden that had nursed me called me a youkai rabbit. I'd heard that a youkai was a supernatural being which was a predator to humans. I was impressed that a human on Earth would even nurse a youkai. I would've thought that on the impure Earth, one would kill something that might harm them, especially if it was already injured... Although my veil was confiscated after that...

As much as I found that surprising, that shrine maiden went with the youkai to invade the moon.

Maybe the stories told about Earth and how Earth actually is are quite different. The impression that I got was that humans and youkai probably coexist on Earth.

Moreover, the vampire seemed to be the leader of the group that attacked the moon, but the one who had control over the group seemed to be the shrine maiden. So, I believe that humans can call forth gods and control youkai. Maybe the Lunar Capital had better redraw its power balance chart of Earth.

That was the reason that I thought it would be wise to trust the shrine maiden if I ever go back to Earth. I thought that rather than everyone from the Lunar Capital stubbornly acting antagonistic towards the humans and youkai of Earth, it may be better to be an ally of the shrine maiden. Then I would be able to easily play on Earth.

"-Oh, is that you, Reisen? Are you running away again?"

I heard a familiar voice. Princess Toyohime's voice.

"Huh? Princess Toyohime? Where are you? And no, I'm not trying to escape again; I've been given an errand by Princess Yorihime... but, what just happened?"

I was staring at a tall tree. I couldn't see anything since it was so dark. Eerie voices of animals sounded. I could not recognize any of my surroundings. Just where was I?

"Um, where are we?"
 
"Shh! Something really interesting is about to happen."

Someone grabbed my collar and I was pulled in the tree's shadow.

It was Princess Toyohime. Nobody else was with her. It looked as if she was hiding behind the tree in wait for someone to arrive. There was only stillness in the forests that surrounded us.

"Ahh, it's taking so long I'm beginning to become bored. I should've brought some sake with me. That sake that's been maturing for a thousand years now..."

"Er... Princess Toyohime, what exactly are you waiting for?"

"Nothing special. Yorihime's having her fun now, right?"

"Right now, she's having duels with the vampire's group."

"Duels?"

"Yes, a one on one match with a special rule. It was something that was suggested by the humans and Princess Yorihime agreed that it was a way to avoid meaningless bloodshed."

"Hmm, that sounds fun. But what rule would that be?"

"Apparently, the one who defeats the opponent gracefully is the winner."

"Huh? Gracefully?"

I don't know what Princess Toyohime imagined but she burst out in laughter.

"Whatever is the matter?"

"Who's deciding what's "graceful" or not? And what do the humans think "grace" is, for that matter? Are they having a beauty contest or something? It sounds like so much fun."

"Er, I think my explanation was a little poor. Gracefully, as in not using dirty tricks and such..."

"Hmhmhm... No, I understand what you want to say. Hmm, those humans are talking like Lunarians now... Or perhaps this too is a teaching of a certain someone."

"This... too?"

Princess Toyohime had said that she had her doubts about what had been happening.

The reason why there was a stir in the Lunar Capital was that someone other than Princess Yorihime had been calling forth the gods without following the proper procedure, but this is not something that anybody can do.

"Oh, that's right. It looks like a shrine maiden of Earth was the one calling the gods. It seems that she was calling Sumiyoshi Sanjin to fly the rocket."

"Oh, so it was a shrine maiden..."

"Is there something on your mind, Princess Toyohime?"

"Even if it was a shrine maiden that could acquire the power of the gods for a living, they shouldn't be able to call them while skipping the proper rituals... Perhaps somebody taught her the wrong way, or maybe that was on purpose... Hmm, it looks like Yorihime got the better part after all. Oh, and why are you here? To run away?"

"I think I told you a while ago, but I am here on an errand given by Princess Yorihime."

"An errand?"

I quickly pulled out the letter.

"I was entrusted with a sealed letter by Lady Yagokoro, and now I am to write a reply to Lady Yagokoro. After that I was told to go to the Sea of Ingenuity... but to think that I would see you in the Sea of Ingenuity..."

"Oh? A letter to Lady Yagokoro?"

Princess Toyohime snatched the letter from my hand and skimmed through it. While she was reading through her expressions ranged all the way from laughter to anguish. I felt like she was mentally correcting it and I felt embarrassed.

"Hmm, what a childish composition. Well, I won't blame you since rabbits have no knowledge."

My face flushed red.

"I can't give such an embarrassing letter to the master. It would be too embarrassing. Reisen, you are to give the letter to her directly."

"Oh, yes, ma'am, but how would I? ...I mean, I don't even know where we are."

There are very few that can easily travel between Earth and the moon. Anybody would be able to go to and from using the Lunar Veil, but it comes with a considerable amount of time and danger. However, Princess Toyohime is special.

Princess Toyohime had the ability to see the sea and the mountain as the same. That ability would tie the seas of the Moon and the mountains of Earth together and make them one and the same place. In other words, that ability made her able to take a great army with her to Earth in a single second, and she was one of the very few Lunarians who had that sort of ability. That sort of ability made her a suitable leader of the lunar emissaries... despite her personality.

"Now that you're with me, all you need to do is watch what is about to happen! Come now, be a little more excited!"

"I'm more nervous than excited, though..."

The landscape around me was astonishingly dark and visibility was low. I heard eerie howling, too. I also noticed that it was very chilly.

It was the exact opposite of the graceful and showy battles fought by the vampire's team and Princess Yorihime, and for that reason I felt very tense. Where Princess Yorihime was fighting may have been very noisy and gaudy at first glance, but now that I compare it to the place I was in, it may have been very quiet. It was a strange feeling since the whisper of the trees felt very loud, although the volume may have been quiet.

Just what was about to happen?

I couldn't ask Princess Toyohime since she would cleverly avoid the question, and in the first place it wasn't the right time to ask such a question.

I suddenly missed my old life from a few months ago, merely pounding rice cakes and singing every day.

Back then, I never had to deal with this nauseous tension. Nor did I feel any fear where I needed to protect myself. I probably would have finished my pounding for the day and gone to drink sake with my friends, complaining about silly things and then going to sleep in a warm futon.

Complaining was just something to get rid of my stress. I was actually happy with that life.

Running away from it all may have been the turning point of my life. I'm not one to seek out change, so this turn of events was not quite welcome.

But I think of what would I be doing, and what I would have done, had I not met Lady Yagokoro on Earth and been sent back to the moon.

Reisen is my current name, but I hear that this was originally the name of the rabbit that had served the Watatsuki family.

I was told that Reisen had fled to Earth and her whereabouts were unknown after that.

But we rabbits have a little ability that lets us communicate with each other no matter how far we are. Our large ears are to catch what other rabbits are thinking. Of course, this not a true means of communication, and it's mostly used to gauge what the others are normally thinking about and to catch rumors floating on the wind.

Through these rumors, it seemed Reisen was captured by Lady Yagokoro and had lost her freedom.

But I know the truth.

Lady Yagokoro did not capture the rabbit that escaped from the moon. She is taking care of it very kindly.

Even me for all my thoughtlessness was able to return to the Lunar Capital and take this job thanks to Lady Yagokoro.

Thinking of that I felt like rewriting the letter that I had written, and adding a line. "Please take care of Reisen, thank you."

The wind stopped and the cold air froze.

"Here it comes,"

Princess Toyohime said in a small but elated voice.

As I looked in the direction Princess Toyohime was looking in,

I saw a beast that I had never seen on the moon before...

A mysterious force created oscillations in the seawater. Waves.

Although water appears as if it surges towards the shore, in reality the flow of the water is unaffected by the direction of the wave.

Sound is also a wave that is transmitted through air. Of course, sound can be carried against the wind as well. It can propagate regardless of the direction of airflow.

Then, what are waves? What are they conveying without displacing matter?

The more that I pondered about it, the more confused I became. It did not help the headache I had from dealing with people of many different wavelengths for the past half a year.

Here above the moon's sea, the water surface silently wavers.

Almost no sound, natural or artificial, can be heard. It is as peaceful and gentle as Higan was.

There are many worlds that come after death, but the first one to be visited after crossing the Sanzu river is Higan. Higan is the place one will wait until their sins are judged by the Enma. In Higan, there is neither night nor day, winter nor summer. Higan was just a quiet place where flowers bloom beautifully in the lifeless winds.

For some reason, the moon's sea closely resembled it.

There was no scent of life. This sea didn't have any trace of karma nor its effects that all life had. What that meant was either nothing lives in these waters, or only whose who never died live here.

I didn't really understand why I was here. I was only carried here by people of different wavelengths. I never understood what was happening around me since summer.

--Summer in the Netherworld.

It was where spirits dwell as they await reincarnation. Since they were spirits that were allowed to reincarnate, most of them were good-natured, but they weren't assured to reincarnate into humans again. However, even birds or beasts would be preferable, since there was the possibility of reincarnating as a caterpillar or other lowly insect.

As spirits never seemed to worry about their next life, they just relaxed and took in the sights of the Netherworld as usual, being carefree by nature.

I was usually in charge of Hakugyokurou's garden and security, but right now I'm handling the reception of a guest. Listening to conversations while remaining seated attentive and upright is still one of my weak points.

"Were you listening to me?"

"Er, yes. Ummm..."

While I was baffled by the abrupt question, my mistress, Lady Yuyuko Saigyouji, seated right beside me, answered in my place.

"Of course, we weren't. Neither I nor Youmu."

"Is that so...? Well, I sort of assumed that. I'm guessing that means you don't care about the fine details, correct?"

I really wasn't paying any attention at all, but I wondered why our guest accepted that answer so easily. Perhaps Lady Yuyuko truly wasn't listening in the first place.

"To get to the point, I would like for you to keep the vampire and her underlings under surveillance."

"Surveillance...?"

All that we are supposed to survey is the Netherworld, and what the youkai do in the world of the living is none of our concern. It was the first time we'd received such a request.

The one to bring up such a strange request to us was the fox, Ran Yakumo.

"...Why do you want us keep them under surveillance? If they want to go to the moon that badly, why not just let them do as they please?"

"We cannot allow that to happen. This is Lady Yukari's request, and...."

Ran sipped her tea. She seemed to be choosing her words.

"...As you know, she has attacked the Lunar Capital once, but it ended in defeat. Ever since then, she has been awaiting her chance of revenge."

'Lady Yukari' was Ran's owner, Lady Yukari Yakumo. She is Lady Yuyuko's old acquaintance, and is just as incomprehensible in her doings as she was.
They were on completely different wavelengths to me.

Lady Yukari once tried to invade the moon a long time ago. As it was several centuries ago, I had naturally not been born at the time. When Ran said "as you know," she was referring to when Lady Yuyuko witnessed this event herself. From that line, I knew that this conversation was not directed at me.

"We had sought out the vampire's strength to solidify our own, but as we suspected, they were planning to go to the moon under their own power. Lady Yukari spoke of not wanting to go without any sort of cooperation, however, under the current conditions..."

That was odd. I normally do not understand Lady Yukari, but something seemed unusual about her asking for the vampire's cooperation. And before requesting help from Lady Yuyuko, at that.

"Lacking any sort of strategy, the vampire's house has no hope of success. That is the extent of the Lunarians' strength. And once they attack the Lunar Capital, the Lunarians will be all the more vigilant against further intrusions. That is most inconvenient for Lady Yukari."

Now that I think of it, it was around the time when that fox came calling when the circumstances starting to bewilder me.

Whenever I cannot understand something, I tend to ask for an explanation as soon as I can. I was taught to live by the adage "Asking makes one appear foolish, but not asking makes one foolish indeed."

However, I was beginning to feel it was inhibiting my comprehensive ability. If I am merely taught everything, I may eventually lose the ability to think for myself altogether.

Once, I asked Lady Yuyuko as I usually do, and she replied...

"Whenever you open your mouth, it's to ask "What is that?" or "What does that mean?". Conversations with you are less meaningful than those with the mute spirits around here."

"My apologies. However, what about the saying, 'Asking makes one appear foolish, but not asking makes one foolish indeed.'?"

"Hmhmhm. Youmu, do you ever feel foolish when you ask a question?"

"Huh?"

"Foolish questions are only to those you should already know the answer, and normally about very important matters where pretending to know can bring great loss."

"......"

"However, there is no shame in asking about something you simply want to know. Shameless questions may not have a definite answer either. If you want to know something, think about it for yourself. If you ask a question every time you want to know something, the things you want to know will gradually lessen. A life without anything to learn can only bring unhappiness. Especially to those who have long lifespans."

Needless to say, Lady Yuyuko died a very long time ago. She remains in the Netherworld as a ghost. However, she uses the expression "life" quite a bit.

I did not have any self-confidence in how much I could comprehend what Lady Yuyuko told me. If she knew yet did not tell me, I thought it was nothing more than her teasing me.

But lately there the number of people who would not answer my questions increased. Perhaps they thought answering questions was a bother. In that case, I am sorry to have caused them trouble.

"I see. So Lady Yukari said that since Lady Yuyuko saw that lunar invasion, she should be able to understand the situation immediately, am I right?"

Ran muttered, "This is not how Lady Yukari said it would be," as she left.

While I was thinking, it appeared that Lady Yuyuko had already declined her request.

I could not understand the reason why Lady Yukari wanted us to keep the vampire under surveillance, nor the reason why Lady Yuyuko turned it down. I could not understand any of it.

"Why did Lady Yukari bring a request like that to you?"

I instantly regretted asking that question, nonchalant as it was. Had I not been told to think for myself?

 
"Is it not as you heard? It seems to be troubling her."

"Y-Yes, I suppose."

I, Youmu Konpaku, gardener of Hakugyokurou, have decided to act independently. I would survey the doings of the vampire and her servants while investigating the underlying scheme they were plotting. Of course, I would not be asking anyone for help nor answers, and understand things on my own. As much as I could, at least...

"...With this, the rocket is even closer to completion. Splendid work, Sakuya. That will be enough for now."

"Yes, ma'am."

The maid passed the bookshelf behind which I had hidden myself.

I sneaked into the underground library at the Scarlet Devil Mansion. A rocket built for moon travel had been in production here.

I was able to familiarize myself with the incomplete rocket without drawing attention to myself.

The outer wall was made of wood, and there were issues with its strength.

Its shape was like that of three buckets stacked on top of each other, but their exact connection to each other was unclear.

The windows fitted into the outer walls were normal windows. I could see the interior through them, pointlessly gaudy furnishings such as lace curtains and a table shaped like a crescent moon.

What I was most concerned about was as the rocket looked more like a small, odd house, I could not determine its means of flight.

...Maybe this was nothing more than a summer house or the like.

This business of building a rocket to go to the moon independently was nothing more than a bluff. Maybe they were actually just building a special house for moon-viewing parties.

"...While it appears they are building a rocket, I do not believe it is in any condition to leave for the moon anytime soon. I should make a memo of this."

"I wonder how long our little spy will continue to believe she has not been spotted."

"Oh?"

"So then, how long will it be until the rocket is complete?"

"Hmph, why should I tell an intruder like you anything?"

"Oh, that's right. I wasn't going to ask questions for now. I was going to think about things myself."

"?"

I was seated at a table shaped like a crescent moon in the center of the library. There I was being confronted by the owner, Patchouli Knowledge. It seems I had approached the rocket a little too closely and had been discovered.

"I knew you were here from the moment you entered. I decided to ignore you since making you leave would have been too much trouble, but you kept muttering something about memos..."

"Huh? I was muttering?"

"Well, I do not particularly mind, so long as you are not intent on stealing or breaking anything."

As she spoke, she rang a bell placed on the table.

"?! Are you going to imprison me?"

"Hmph, if I was going to do anything of the sort, I would have done it a while ago."

"So why did you ring that..."

"I called Sakuya to bring some tea. Only for me though. Now, what is it?"

"Excuse me?"

"What brought you here? Was it something about the rocket?"

It seemed as if she had no intention of imprisoning me. When I thought about it, the vampire had made the fact that she was making a rocket to go to the moon public quite a while ago, and they had no idea that Lady Yukari had asked us to keep them under surveillance. In fact, it seemed as if they wanted everyone else to know they were in the middle of a huge undertaking.

I should take this opportunity to ask them as much as I wanted, but then I reconsidered as I thought it was best for me to think about everything for myself.

"Earlier, when I was looking at the rocket... there is something I could not quite figure out."

"What is it?"

"Just how is this rocket supposed to fly? Oh, that was just me speaking to myself."

"Speaking to yourself?"

"Right, meaning it was not a question, so you do not have to answer if you prefer."

"Huh? I am not sure what you are talking about, but this rocket moves though..."

Just then, Sakuya the maid entered the library holding a cup of tea. She must have been called by the bell.

"Here is your tea, ma'am... Oh my, who have we here?"

I thought it best to greet her for now. "Sorry to intrude."

"You had yet to leave? But I am so relieved."

"How are you relieved?"

"To see you seated with Miss Patchouli. If not, I was wondering what you were doing by hiding in plain sight like that..."

"Hmph, she came here to see me in the first place so there was nothing to worry about."

I could no longer claim that I was genuinely attempting to hide.

"I decided to bring tea for two. I did not believe you had left yet."

"Th-Thank you very much."

I bowed as the maid placed two cups of tea of the table. Judging from its scent, I felt the quality of the tea here cannot begin to compare to the tea at Hakugyokurou. The scent of our green tea was so delicate yet long-lasting. It was in sharp contrast to the overpowering scent of the black tea that sat before me.

Patchouli opened her mouth.

"So, where was I?"

"About how the rocket moves."

"Ah, the propulsion. At the moment, I do not understand it works yet."

She doesn't understand? Well, it looks like they're nothing for Lady Yukari to worry about after all.

"It seems we need some form of energy source that comes in a three-stage tube. I had Sakuya search for more information just now, but if you know anything about it, I want you to tell me."

"...Why would you ask me? And how do you know if I would cooperate with you?"

"Oh, but did you not want to see the moon? Do you not want to help with the surprise attack on the Lunarians?"

The Lunarians... About two or three years ago some others who called themselves that took up residence in the bamboo forest.

I could only think of them as not entirely suited to Gensokyo.

I had thought to survey the vampire doings, but that was so I could understand Lady Yukari's motives. I would never want to be branded as an ally to the Lunarians, but if I did interfere with the rocket's completion, that just might happen as a result.

For the time being, I merely told her I would let her know if I came across anything, and left the mansion.

-The road that leads to Hakurei Shrine.

The night had only deepened, humans, whose eyes were poorly suited for seeing in the dark, were scarce to be seen here.

As no humans lived in this area and the trees that grew here created ominous shadow, it was a popular spot for tests of courage.

While I am used to ghosts (being half-ghost myself), I do not handle dark places very well.

So for those who are wondering why I am walking this dark path, there is a reason.

It is part of my surveillance of the rocket being constructed at the Scarlet Devil Mansion. The maid Sakuya has left on an errand concerning it.

I am following after her.

In other words, tailing. It seems to be among the basics of investigation.

I don't mean to boast, but I am skilled in tailing. As I am half-human and half-ghost, the presences of both are less noticeable than a full one.

Patchouli said that she had Sakuya search for more information on the rocket's propulsion system, so if I follow her, I might be able to learn something myself.

Why did Lady Yukari request the surveillance of the vampire's house?

"I wonder how long our little stalker will continue to believe she has not been spotted."

"Oh?"

If I've been spotted, I have no choice but to stop tailing. I will have to change my methods of investigation from tailing to interrogation. Interrogation also seems to be among the basics of investigation.

"Oh, so how do you know about our rocket? Perhaps..."

"Surveillan... oh, wait. I mean..."

"Did that fox come to you with a story of invading the moon as well?"

"Excuse me?"

"Because she came to us, too. She suggested we invade the moon together."

"W-Well, that is..."

Now I remembered. The fox mentioned wanting to form an alliance with the vampire and her servants.

There seemed something strange about that.

Why would she ask the vampire?

Why wouldn't she ask Lady Yuyuko first?

"Regrettable as you may see it, we have already formed our own plans for invading the moon. We are even making an original rocket. If you say you wish to go as well, please refrain from going before we complete it, as Milady has already laid claim to the Lunar Capital."

"No, we weren't planning on going to the moon, but when will your rocket be finished?"

"Hmmm... There is something important that we have been unable to find. But why should I have to tell you?"

"Something important you have not been able to find..."

"Why are you making a memo of it? What are you going to do with it?"

"Ah, um, nothing really."

Sakuya disappeared toward the direction of the shrine. I was scared of travelling at night so I followed quickly to avoid being left too far behind.

-Kourindo.

An antique store separated from the human village.

While it is an antique store, it sells more than antiques. It deals in anything its owner has been able to scavenge.

The scavenged articles lay in front of the building, making one think it might be more a place that buys stolen goods.

"Huh? You want to know what Miss Sakuya bought from here?"

"Yes. I know she has been frequenting this store as of late. I want as many details as possible."

"I'm sorry to say this, but a store like this must respect the privacy of our customers."

"...Hmm. I guess I will have to search for myself."

I looked around the inside of the store.

Cold, iron boxes, glass rings and thin, green plates.

This store was filled with such things that could not be thought as desirable for purchase.

"...What could be related to rockets in this store...?"

"Oh, so you're looking for research about rockets, too? In that case, a book about the Apollo program would be just what you need."

"The Apollo program...?"

"It was a project that aimed to fly a rocket to the moon."

"P-Please show me that book!"

"Well, sorry to say, but we're sold out right now. They've all been bought up."

Whoever it was that bought these books was clearer than glass.

"I-I see..."

The vampire's rocket must be based on what is written in those books. I was certain of it.

I felt I was beginning to understand reason for the sudden progress on the rocket. The vampire and her cohorts had obtained those books about this project from the outside world and used them for their own rocket.

This means that Lady Yukari is probably worried if there were rockets in the outside world, too.

If they've completed a rocket that can go to the moon in the outside world, that might cause trouble for her.

Hmm, it was truly a shame I was unable to find any of these books for myself.

Just a little more effort and I might have even been to figure out what was about to happen.

"Well, even though all the books about the Apollo program are gone, I have some books that have almost the same contents. I don't think there's much of a difference at all."

"Huh? Th-Then let me have one of those, please."

-Hakugyokurou.

"And what would that book you are reading happen to be about, Youmu?"

"Ah, Lady Yuyuko. S-Since it was raining today, I thought I would study a little."

I hid the book while I told her. While she did not tell me I should not investigate the doings of the vampire, I still did it in secret. If she noticed what book I was reading, it would be unnatural.

"Studying? I'm shocked! Do not bother with such dull things, and instead busy yourself with preparing the dumplings for tonight's viewing of the harvest moon."

I nodded and she left the room.

Then my eyes returned to the book.

"The Soyuz spacecraft. After the end of the Apollo program, any further plans to reach the moon also became nothing more than fantasy. However, rockets used for the Soyuz spacecraft was said to have been even more technologically advanced than the rockets used in the Apollo program. If it had reached the moon before the Apollo program, it might have had a significant effect on history."

The book I bought from Kourindo was about the Apollo program as well as another kind of rocket.

It appeared that there were no major differences in shape between the Soyuz and Apollo rockets.

It was a three-stage tube that became thinner as it reached the tip. This confirmed my belief that the vampire had used the rockets from the outside world as a reference for hers.

This meant that the construction must be more or less the same.

I was worried that the abundance of technical terms would make it difficult to understand, but I was able to find the section about which I was most curious, the propulsion system.

It seemed to be furnished with disposable fuel that flew when ignited. Much like fireworks.

Going to the moon seemed to be something that would be difficult to do with magic, but the answer was surprisingly simple.

"If it's like that, then wouldn't filling it with gunpowder get them there soon enough? It might be rather uncomfortable though."

While I pictured a house placed on fireworks flying through the air, my thoughts were interrupted by a voice calling for me.

"Youmuuuu! Are the dumplings ready yeeeeet?"

"Yes, ma'am. I am coming."

Tonight was the night of the harvest moon. According to the calendar, at least.

However, it likely wouldn't be possible to enjoy its glow if this poor weather continued. It had been drizzling for quite some time and had yet to stop falling. Even if the rain stopped, it was unsure if the clouds would also break up.

But regardless, I enjoy rolling the dumplings.

Feeling the slippery smoothness after they had been steamed felt good. Just touching them made me happy.

"Hey, is tonight's offering ready yet?"

"Oh, Lady Yuyuko. How long have you been there? It will only take a little while longer."

She rushed over to me.

"Don't we have to start soon? It's the night of the harvest moon, after all."

I had the feeling she was not as anxious to see the moon as she was hungry.

"Yes, according to the calendar, but seeing how the weather has been lately, I believe it will be raining tonight, too."

I pointed to the window. As the rain had continued for the past two or three days, I felt having a moon-viewing ceremony tonight was hopeless.

"Yes, I realize that. It is normal for the weather to be poor around the time of the harvest moon, and has been for many, many years. In fact, it has been said that for nine years out of ten, the moon would be hidden by the clouds. The way it would rarely show itself has made it all the more worthy of being special..."

Lady Yuyuko had become unusually talkative, likely because of her hunger. "So, why am I rolling these dumplings?"

She told me matter-of-factly, "For what else are dumplings other than being eaten?"

-As night came and the rain continued, the moon remained concealed behind the clouds, as I expected.

We placed the dumplings to be offered on the porch facing the stone garden courtyard.

Lady Yuyuko sat beside the dumplings, immediately took one and placed it in her mouth.

"This is what is known as 'ugetsu', or 'rainy moon', particularly when the harvest moon has been obscured due to the rain. But even in times like this, we can enjoy imagining what the moon looks like above the clouds."

"That seems rather desperate to me."

Not being able to see the moon during moon-viewing ceremonies leaves me disappointed. Isn't it normal?

"Not at all. It is more refined that way. Since long ago, it has been much more cultured to look at round objects to inspire the imagination and envision the harvest moon rather than see it directly. People would imagine the harvest moon to be many times bigger and beautiful than any they had ever witnessed before. All it takes is a single dumpling, so the simplest method is best, am I right?"

Tsukimi udon, udon noodles with an egg to resemble the moon also comes to mind. Satoimo shironi, also resembling the moon, is a common side dish.

I enjoy udon with egg, so maybe preparing that instead of having a moon-viewing ceremony might be more refined.

"And then, being able to imagine the most breathtakingly beautiful harvest moon, the one that should be just beyond the clouds, came to be called 'ugetsu'."

Lady Yuyuko took a dumpling between her fingers and held it over her head, placing it where the full moon should have been visible.

Being satisfied with the ugetsu I couldn't see behind the clouds, we returned inside.

Lady Yuyuko said she wanted to drink the moon-viewing ceremonial sake, so I went to prepare it.

As I walked, I thought about the best way to report to her the information I had gathered about the progress the vampire had made with her rocket.

I felt I was very close to understanding Lady Yukari's intention on having us monitor the vampire, but I was unable to put my thoughts in order just on my own.

After pouring the sake, I once again brought up subject of the fox's visit from two months ago.

"Yukari's just being overly worried. She thinks there could be some untold number of spies on Earth or something."

"It was quite an incomprehensible request, was it not? I do not see why she could not have monitored the vampire herself..."

Lady Yuyuko laughed. I had tried to determine what she was thinking through indirect questions, but it seemed I was being too indirect to elicit any substantial response.

It was the same as usual. Lady Yuyuko always seems like she knows something, but in actuality, she is merely acting on whatever strikes her fancy. I wondered if anything serious would happen if we left things as they were.

So I resolved my will and confessed about what I had been doing.

I spoke of my investigation of the rocket and the surveillance of the vampire's house for the past two months.

I spoke of how the rocket was incomplete as they were missing a method of propulsion.

And I spoke of once they completed a cylindrical, three-stage rocket, they would be able to launch at any time.

Lady Yuyuko listened to me with her eyes wide open. I continued my report, prepared for her wrath.

I don't mind if she is upset. As long as I am able to bring everything down to my level of comprehension, that will be acceptable.

But the words that came from her mouth were far beyond my wildest expectations.

"...The vampire will not finish her rocket. If you give that message to the shrine maiden, everything will progress on its own."

I despaired of ever understanding what was happening.

And then, I abandoned the notion of thinking on my own.

What Lady Yuyuko desired was for the vampire to complete her rocket and leave for the moon before Lady Yukari did.

Would that be wise?

-I surrendered to the flow. Now, I am on the moon.

The surface of the moon is covered in water. I could see waves coming from all directions, interfering with each other and making complex patterns on the surface.

Is this the sea? It is so wide. It even seems wider than the Sanzu River, likely because the visibility is better.

But most of all, the moon was more beautiful than I had imagined it to be.

I remember what Lady Yuyuko said about the ugetsu.

"People would imagine the harvest moon to be many times bigger and beautiful than any they had ever witnessed before."

"Lady Yuyuko...?"

"Hmm? Do you not know the way to the Lunar Capital?"

"Not really, but what I wanted to ask was why did..."

"It will not be easy to enter the Lunar Capital. We need to take a special route."

"Did you plan on coming to the moon from the beginning?"

"Yukari had asked me to come. But the real problem lies just ahead."

We had sneaked into the moon from its reflection in the lake near the Scarlet Devil Mansion. It appeared to be an entrance Lady Yukari had prepared through some method.

There was still much that was unclear about Lady Yuyuko's actions and I did not place too much confidence in them, but coming this far, I had no choice but to remain by her side.

However, I was a little happy to have been able to come here.

As I conducted my independent surveillance on the vampire, I must have started to feel jealous for some reason.

It was like a small voice in my head saying, "I want to see the moon, too."

In fact, if the vampire and her entourage were the only ones to go to the moon, I might have felt frustrated.

In times like this, I was grateful for my mistress's whimsy.

However, that gratitude turned into regret as my experience here began to erode my enthusiasm.

I had been thoroughly tossed about by others on different wavelengths from myself, and the interference felt stronger than ever.

As always, there was a throng of people passing through the commons known as a meeting place for aged shogi and go players. Even rabbits would come here during their break times, but those who were unable to find an opponent would become irritated.

"What's with that crowd? It seems like there's a fight going on, but it isn't nearly noisy enough for that."

An elder rabbit was talking to a group of other rabbits in the crowd. The usual group of go players.

"Fight? No, no. That's not it at all. They're just wanting to see something."

"So are they street performers? The younger-looking ones are yelling loudly about 'Can't the older Watatsuki sister catch that crook?'"

The Watatsukis are a prestigious family tasked with the security and policing of the lunar capital for nearly 1,000 years. They are in charge of training the moon rabbits who are by nature unsuited to warfare and protect the capital.

The younger sister, Yorihime, is particularly important to the cause, possessing the power to easily call on the power of the gods to deal with any situation.

Their basic operative is to protect the capital from outside enemies, but they also take rabbits of poor behavior and train them into soldiers. Very few rabbits want to become soldiers, and they see the Watatsuki manor as more of a boot camp.

"No, what they want to see are the Watatsuki princesses in person."

"What? They want to see the princesses?"

Heads turned to look at something trying to make its way through the crowd. There, a human was doing a strange dance. Standing next to the human were the Watatsuki sisters, Yorihime and Toyohime.

"That dancing human looks like one from Earth who tried to attack the moon. She's the real criminal behind those rumors about a rebellion."

The rumors about a rebellion caused great unrest, as whispers circulated about someone in the lunar capital plotting to overturn the government.

No one knows who started it, but around the same time it did start, strange occurrences began to happen regularly.

First, the flag that the humans planted on the near side of the moon was removed, vanished without a trace. This was seen as a sign that someone from Earth had invaded the moon.

Then, someone was invoking the gods that live on the moon, using them for their own ends. Something like what Princess Yorihime could do.

And there were other reasons why everyone suspected the Watatsuki family.

The Watatsuki sisters' roles were initially performed by someone else. This person was called the sage of the moon, Lady Eirin Yagokoro.

Lady Yagokoro could make any and all kinds of medicine and was highly dependable. But she turned her back on the moon and went into hiding on Earth.

There was an emergency election to fill the vacant position in the lunar emissaries, and her pupils, the Watatsuki sisters, were chosen.

Once appointed, their first order was the search and retrieval of Lady Yagokoro. However, after nearly a thousand years, they have nothing to show for their efforts. They claim that she has not yet earned the right to return to the moon (As the moon sees Earth as a prison, criminals are incarcerated on Earth until they have served their sentence. Therefore, it appeared that Lady Yagokoro had yet to atone for her crime.), but the reality is that the Watatsuki sisters still had trust in their mentor, and did not want to be the ones to bring her back.

Possibly because of this connection, the Watatsuki sisters were not entirely trusted by the rest of the lunar capital.

Traces of an invader from Earth and the inexplicable manipulation of the gods. It was only natural to suspect the Watatsukis.

"All right, that's enough. You've demonstrated well enough that you can summon the gods."

Yorihime spoke to Reimu who was performing a mysterious dance in front of a crowd of rabbits.

Reimu said "That's enough?", and the rabbits broke out into applause for some reason. Some even threw coins like they were giving New Year's donations at the shrine. Reimu waved to the rabbits with a befuddled expression.

"You still need to exhibit your talents in many other places."

"What? Why do I have to keep doing this?"

"You are in no situation to complain."

"And what's the point of doing that dance anyway?"

"It's the best way to show that you are able to summon the gods. We don't like killing here so it's the most serious punishment you will receive. Once you've finished, you may return to Earth."

"Hmm, so you dance to summon the gods here?"

Reimu spoke as she collected the thrown coins, then she noticed that the crowd was beginning to disperse. Yorihime pulled Reimu's hand back and chided her. "I wouldn't worry about money right now."

"This is silly. How come I'm the only one who has to stay here? You let the others go back without so much as a slap on the wrist, but I'm being punished like this."

"Without a slap on the wrist? You are mistaken. Living on Earth is the worst punishment you can receive."

"The way I see it, they just left for home."

Reimu retorted.

She looked at the peach trees through a round window from the large Oriental-style manor.

The window was not made of anything like glass. It appeared to be wide open, but bugs aren't able to enter, likely because such uncivilized beings such as bugs did not exist on the moon to begin with, but it also kept the room at a comfortable temperature.

Researchers immerse themselves in their research and debate about what can or cannot possibly exist with others. If they did not have to worry about food or other things to remain alive, they would conduct research for eternity.

Maybe the lunar capital is something like that.

If one lived here, maybe it would be natural to see Earth as a prison.

A gourmet spread was laid out on an antique table.

At this table, Reimu and the Watatsuki sisters were seated.

When presented with splendid dishes the likes of which she had never seen before, her mood improved considerably.

"This is in return for your efforts today."

Toyohime gave her words of gratitude, and Reimu immediately set into the food. Its taste was even better than how it looked.

"I was wondering, how long am I going to have to stay here?"

"That's a good question. At least not until you've helped prove Yorihime innocent, but for now, just make yourself at home."

"Something seems kind of weird though. I thought it'd be a lot busier here. *chomp, smack*"

"Refrain from speaking with food in your mouth. Your Earthling manners are a disgrace here."

Yorihime rebuked her, and Reimu abashedly swallowed her food.

"And there's one more reason why we need you to remain here."

"Huh?"

She noticed that Yorihime had yet to touch her food. She was nervous for a moment, but relaxed when she saw Toyohime had eaten the same things she had.

"You called upon the power of Sumiyoshi Sanjin to take you to the moon. I want you to tell me how this came out."

"Huh? Hmm, now that I think about it, what exactly happened again?"

Reimu put down her chopsticks and tried to remember the chain of events leading to their arrival on the moon.

The one who wanted to go the moon in the first place was Remilia. It was after they first met the people from the moon who lived in the bamboo forest. She took an interest to the city on the moon, and thought to go there herself. That's why she worked on building the rocket for over a year.

Reimu wasn't nearly as interested, mostly because she didn't believe it would be possible to go at all. However, if there was some method available, that was a different story. She wanted to go see it at least once.

Remilia had come calling often, asking for her cooperation in doing something or another, although it was Sakuya rather than Remilia. One day, she asked about something that could be used as rocket fuel.

"I don't know the first thing about rocket fuel. Something about doing a dance with while holding a dried turtle. How would that get you to you moon? That vampire's brain must have gone crazy from being alive for 500 years."

Reimu, starting to get caught up in her recollection, asked the sisters if they agreed.

"There are many ways to go between Earth and the moon. First, by travelling through space, like in the rockets you and those other Earthlings did, or the lunar veils the rabbits use."

Reimu was disappointed at Yorihime's answer, being different than what she expected.

"But the people of the moon are different. We can move through a door that greatly decreases the distance between Earth and the moon. It's just as how the Sanzu River separates yet connects the world of the living to Higan."

"Higan... That certainly does seem far away, but if you die, you go there in a flash so it must be close, too."

"And the people of the moon see Earth just as you see Higan, because the nobility here sees it as that. It is unexpectedly simple to go between the two places."

 
"Hmm, but you know, Gensokyo is pretty tiny. Earth is much, much bigger. But it seems like this place is even smaller than Gensokyo. Just where does that arrogance come from?"

"Size has nothing to do with it. We are simply superior, that is all. Now, returning to the subject at hand, it seems you used both methods of moving through space and contracting distance."

When she said that, Reimu remembered that the distance from Earth to the moon felt shorter than she had imagined.

"How did that happen?"

"We don't think that rocket was built by Earthlings. Maybe there was someone else who lended their knowledge?"

Reimu said that it took a few coincidences for the rocket's completion.

First, someone who had been hiding their knowledge for some time helped greatly advance the progress of the vampire's rocket project.

It was the half-phantom Youmu who had told them about the rocket's driving force.

And then, there was the matter of Reimu training to call upon the power of the gods for some reason.

With these happening almost simultaneously, the vampire's rocket was able to reach completion.

But was this all mere coincidence?

Of course, it wasn't. That was likely clear to everyone. It all had to have been the doings of that youkai, behind the scenes.

This made one wonder if the rumors circulating around the Lunar Capital about someone staging a coup were also a coincidence.

"Lending their knowledge...? Hmmm, but I was the one who came up with the idea of using the Sumiyoshi Sanjin."

"So how were you able to call them?"

"Well, I just happened to be training to call upon the powers of the gods and... wait a minute, why was I training for that anyway?"

Yorihime was becoming slightly agitated with the Earthling's vague memory.

"Weren't you training at the request of someone?"

"Oh, that's right. It was Yukari who told me I needed to train. I really don't know why, though."

"Yukari... Yakumo, am I right?" Toyohime joined in the conversation. It seemed she understood something upon hearing that name.

"Do you know her? She's the worst youkai in Gensokyo."

"Naturally. There is no one in the Lunar Capital who is not aware of her. Her ability to travel freely between Earth and the moon makes her quite a nuisance."

"Wow, she's pretty famous. Wait, did you say she could freely travel between Earth and the moon?!"

"Yes, and she used that ability to bring a throng of youkai here long ago. Of course, we sent them back much worse for the wear."

"I don't care about that. So we didn't even have to make a rocket or anything like that to get to the moon? Why didn't she help us?"

Toyohime used a ladle to fill a glass with some variety of magical liquid from a large clay pot. Reimu momentarily increased her vigilance when she saw it.

"This is a special kind of alcohol that has been fermenting for eternity, through magical means. It is not like anything you have ever tasted on Earth."

"You didn't poison it, did you?"

"We dislike senseless killing," Toyohime said as she drank the cup she had offered to Reimu. She offered her own cup in return.

Still pensive as if doubting her eyes, Reimu took the cup. The overly refined fragrance might have felt somehow desolate if consumed on Earth.

"Yukari did an excellent job in pulling your strings."

Said Yorihime.

"What's that supposed to mean?"

"You do not have to completely understand. Just know that we bear no ill will towards whoever came aboard the rocket."

"Now, that's enough talk for today. Let us enjoy the rest for drinking. We shall continue tomorrow."

Outside the circular window, it had completely darkened.

It was no longer possible to view the peach trees through it. However, there were two figures who should not have been there watching.

Something that could never exist on the Lunar Capital, but had been seen by many people on Earth.

In shrines at night, under the willow trees, or in abandoned schools and hospitals. Some people are even able to see them in the middle of the day, out in the cities, or in their own home. They can show up just about anywhere.

Ghosts.

The Watatsuki sisters did not notice the figure of a ghost watching them through the window, likely because there are no such things as ghosts in the Lunar Capital.

"Lady Yuyuko, why is Reimu here?"

Youmu spoke in a whisper. She knew Yuyuko was planning something.

Reimu, who was facing the window, told Yorihime and Toyohime of her own war stories, all thoroughly drunk.

Yorihime was interested in the doings on Earth, and listened intently. She might have been hoping to hear about her former mentor.

"I'm so jealous, Youmu."

"What? Whatever for?"

"How I'd love to enjoy such sumptuous feasts like that every day."

"No, I don't think even you could eat that much. But please never mind that. Why is Reimu here?"

"Maybe she just came calling?"

"I know she came here on the vampire's rocket, but I wonder what happened to the other passengers. That is what I meant."

"I have been with you the whole time, so I have no way of knowing."

"I suppose you're right... Do you believe they have captured the others?"

"But it seems like Reimu is the one they have captured."

"In one sense of the word. However, it appears more like a reception than anything."

Did anyone ever imagine seeing a ghost in the Lunar Capital?

Regardless, as they were meant to be acting in secret, one could not ask for a more convenient form.

Ghosts inherently reside in a Pure Land. This meant they have not been tainted by life nor death, and as a result they were able to act without leaving behind any traces of their presence.

Very few were aware of this fact. Even when youkai invaded the moon long ago, there were only some youkai that noticed by sheer coincidence.

But was it a coincidence that this untainted ghost was here at this mansion?

No, it's clear that this was not a coincidence at all. It was all due to the guidance of that youkai, Yukari Yakumo.

What exactly was the ghost's plan now that they had safely infiltrated the moon?

That would be the final step in Yukari's master plan.

The shrine on the border of Gensokyo.

The trees dyed in red began to lose their color, gradually turning white. As it mimicked white powder falling on the leaves, the trees were eventually came to be called "powdered trees."

At the Hakurei Shrine, the fallen leaves had formed a carpet due to the lack of upkeep, and the leaves from the powdered trees were turning this carpet white.

With its lone tenant absent, the whole building felt desolate. It seemed as the ruins of an old building reclaimed by nature.

As if refusing the weathering state of the shrine, a girl showed up, walking across the leaves, kicking up the newly-fallen white-speckled ones.

"Guess she ain't here today either."

She sat down on the cold offertory box.

"Why didn't those Lunarians let Reimu come back with us, huh? Are they still givin' her the third degree or somethin'?"

Watching for a while to see if anyone else would come, she grew bored of waiting as she expected and left the shrine.

The black magician, then the devil's maid, then the wind-wielding tengu, the shrine had many visitors who came to see if the shrine was still empty in turns, but the shrine's occupant did not return.

While the shrine was silent, the vampire's interest changed from the moon to some other subject. She was unable to forget about the sea that she saw while on the moon, so she said she wanted to make one in Gensokyo.

Making a sea required dissolving sodium into a massive body of water, like a large lake. The surface of the Earth is covered in 70% saltwater. How would it be possible to create such a thing? There was no source of rock salt to be found in Gensokyo. However, it would be possible to collect the salts found in the blood of humans... But salt wasn't the problem.

Even if the Earth would return a sea to Gensokyo, it would not be a host to living things. It would be just like the blue expanse a certain youkai saw not too long ago. It would be a sea without fish or bacteria or anything. There was no need for seawater.

"Can we not widen it a little if you just move those books over there?"

Remilia Scarlet was in the library under her mansion making her own personal sea.

"There is nowhere else to move them, you know," said the exasperated librarian Patchouli Knowledge.

"So we shall move them to an unused room in the mansion."

"What? But then I will have to sort them all over again."

Many of the books in the library had been moved to make room for the massive pile of sand that now covered the floor.

This could not truly be called a sea; merely an indoor pool. It would not be a permanent fixture either.

Why was she creating a space to play in the water in the middle of winter?

It seemed to be how the vampire was planning on expressing her thanks. Her desire to visit the moon was fulfilled thanks to the shrine maiden's power. She thought to build the sea until the shrine maiden returned to Earth, and then invite her to enjoy it.

A sea in a Gensokyo where there had been none. She imagined any human would be pleased by this development.

It wouldn't be until several days later that she received word that the shrine maiden had returned.

"I guess this kind of outfit is okay for a day at the sea, right?"

Reimu Hakurei, returning home after being held for nearly a month on the moon, was preparing for a trip to the beach at the vampire's invitation.

"But the sea is under the Scarlet Devil Mansion, ain't it? Seems more like splashin' around at the hot springs to me."

Marisa answered Reimu's question, the usual exchange. The shrine which had many visitors but no residents had appeared to have completely fallen into ruin, but once the resident returned, it immediately returned back to normal. She was vital to the shrine, after all.

"So why are we splashing around in this chill anyway? Ahhhh, it was so warm back on the Lunar Capital. I didn't expect the shrine to get this cold..."

"Buildings with no one in 'em are the coldest. That's 'cause people give buildings their warmth."

"Hmph. They're only cold because of the phantoms that have moved in. Ahhhh, and I still have to clean up and get ready for the New Year ceremonies..." She complained as she continued to prepare for the sea. It appeared her body had yet to accustom itself to the weather.

"I still can't believe they made a sea despite that whole fiasco on the moon. Why don't they think up o' some way to go to a sea here on Earth?"

"Well, that's because that would be even further than the moon."

The seas are further than the moon. That just may be true.

It might be appropriate to make a retort about how the Tanegashima and Kennedy Space Centers float on the sea.

But within the confines of Gensokyo, there were none. For those who had went to the moon yet did not cross the boundaries of Gensokyo, the thought to go outside the boundaries should never have occurred to them. Where there was no sea, all they could do was make one. That's what they believed.

However, the library naturally proved to be too small for the construction of a sea.

The underground library had been submerged, and they took that excuse to further furnish it with palm trees and colorful parasols. A lamp had been placed to imitate the midsummer sun, but the memory of it was too vague to recreate convincingly. It would have been impossible in the first place for a vampire to willingly make anything resembling the sun, but at any rate, it was dim and cold.

The vampire pretended to sunbathe underneath the parasols. Her witch friend read books as always.

"Like I said, it's not right to be playing in the water in the middle of winter!"

Reimu came out of the sea. It seemed particularly cold, not hospitable to the human body.

"Milady, it appears you have a visitor."

The maid at Remilia's side informed her.

Remilia cocked her head and said "Just ignore them," in a tiresome manner. But at that moment, the air was cut by a lukewarm wind that blew across the chilled, winter sea!

An elegant sheet was spread out upon the artificial beach. A figure clad in a bathing suit and a showy parasol sat upon it.

Appearing out of a gap in thin air was the youkai Yukari Yakumo, bearing alcohol.

Yukari had visited to extend an invitation to a party. If one were to receive such an invitation from her, it is only natural to wonder what ulterior motives she may have.

However, upon her forceful appearance, she started her party before anyone could say a word in protest.

Yukari Yakumo had brought her shikigami Ran and her friend Yuyuko Saigyouji, along with her servant Youmu Konpaku. The beach in the basement had suddenly become the scene of a big party.

"Wow, this is an unusual variety of sake." Remilia was genuinely surprised.

Upon hearing this, Yukari replied, "How rude. It is not poisoned, I'll have you know." While nonsensical, Reimu and Marisa actually were suspicious of whether or not it was poisoned, but once the maid partook of the alcohol, they followed suit.

"Huh? Where have I tasted this before...?" Reimu seemed to be unable to remember, and for some reason, Yuyuko saw Reimu in her puzzled state.

Marisa asked, "This sure is some pure sake. I dunno how they made it, but... where would they make somethin' like this?" Yukari reiterated in response, "It's not poisoned."

Actually, there was a secret behind the sake Yukari had brought. It was sake made in the Lunar Capital.

Ghosts had nothing to do with life nor death. Because of that, they fit in perfectly with the pure nature of the Lunar Capital. During her month-long stay on the moon, Yuyuko's presence there did not raise any suspicions in the least.

This allowed her to brazenly steal the sake, and once the next full moon occurred, Yukari was able to open the way back to Earth.

Yuyuko had simply one reason for her theft.

It was to obtain revenge on the crushing defeat the Watatsuki sisters levied on them so long ago without involving the rest of the Lunarians.

While it was Yukari who led the invasion that had utterly failed more than one thousand years ago, Yukari knew that if she were to attack directly again, it would draw far too much attention.

So she devised a strategy to use the vampire's attack and even herself as decoys. If Yukari was confined to Earth, then there wouldn't be anyone else with the ability to travel between Earth and the moon. That would be the only way to have the Watatsuki sisters lower their guard.

But was the sake heist the true intent of Yukari's Second Lunar Invasion?

"Tell me of what happened on the lunar surface during your assault."

Yukari told the vampire.

"That was so long ago, I have already forgotten. You may harbor thousand-year-old grudges, but I live for the future."

"Oh my, harboring grudges? Who mentioned anything like that?" Yukari said with a sly grin.

"Hm? Didn't you say something about invading the moon this winter six months ago?"

"That was so long ago, I have already forgotten."

Remilia gave a slight laugh and began to recount the time of her trip to the moon.

Despite her nearly incomprehensible explanation of the rocket's construction, her tales of the journey within it, the color of the sea and the defeat at the hands of Watatsuki no Yorihime were amusing.

The surprising thing is that it appeared Remilia felt no particular frustration about losing. She may not have thought she would emerge victorious in the first place, as she knew the combined efforts of Yukari and the other youkai stood no chance either.

So why build a rocket and go to the moon at all?

Yukari's skirmish on the moon was ages before Remilia was born. Perhaps she was jealous.

Of course, their encounter with the group at Eientei was likely a major cause. That is when she first learned of the existence of the Lunar Capital.

To Remilia, that was frontier of her dreams.

"Oh, yes. I have invited other guests today."

At the same time the words left Yukari's mouth, a fairy maid entered the library-turned-sea. Everyone became slightly nervous.

"It appears those you spoke of have arrived to the party..."

Remilia nodded towards the entrance, where two figures had appeared. These rather unusual visitors to the mansion were Eirin Yagokoro and Kaguya Houraisan.

"What? We heard there was going to be a party, but a heated pool...?"

"It's a sea," said Remilia. "It's a freezing pool," said Reimu, both at the same time.

In the dimly-lit underground was a beach, water, colorful parasols, palm trees and a mixture of human and youkai, some in bathing suits. This scene would likely perplex anyone.

Yukari properly greeted them. "Terribly sorry to keep you waiting," she said as she bowed. Eirin instantly understood the situation and kneeled in seiza on the elegant sheet.

Eirin had a complete understanding of what had happened.

A certain youkai had used the shrine maiden to cause unrest through the rumors in the Lunar Capital.

The shrine maiden did her part by summoning the gods as this youkai had instructed. The only one who had permission to do this was Watatsuki no Yorihime. This made her a suspect as well as her mentor, Eirin Yagokoro. This, too, was plotted by the youkai.

Someone would get the idea to use the power of the Sumiyoshi Sanjin summoned by the shrine maiden to complete the three-stage rocket.

Of course the Sumiyoshi Sanjin, the gods of voyage, would be housed in a tube[1]. Surely, it was the same god of Saturn V, the first American rocket to reach the moon.

The moment Eirin saw the vampire's rocket, she knew that it was built based on a book about rockets from the outside world, but there was no way they were aware of the Sumiyoshi Sanjin's importance.

The only one who would have recognized that need would be someone well-versed in Gensokyo, the outside world and the Lunar Capital. At that moment, it was obvious to Eirin that someone was controlling these events from the shadows.

She was convinced that whomever it was also had the shrine maiden train to summon the gods. So it could only have been Yukari Yakumo.

By using a rabbit that had unexpectedly escaped from the moon, she was able to send a letter to the Watatsuki sisters. If it weren't for that rabbit, she had planned to once again replace the moon with a fake so that only the main perpetrator would not reach the moon. However, that would once again cause unrest throughout Gensokyo so it was a dangerous method...

But Eirin was also uneasy. The one pulling the strings had a vague objective. Even if she felt she had to create a fake moon as a last resort, it was entirely possible nothing would have happened. That alone was ominous enough.

And now she was face-to-face with the mastermind. Yukari was provoking Eirin through an invitation to drink.

"And what strange turn of events led to this?"

Eirin gazed at her surroundings. Given the rocket launch not too long ago and the beach that now occupied most of the library, it could be said this was Gensokyo's very own Cape Canaveral.

"We just thought it necessary to soothe the pain of labor with some sake," Yukari said ominously as she handed some to Eirin.

Eirin's mind moved quickly, but this speed proved to have its weaknesses. Whenever confronted with anything she could not understand, she would pretend to purposefully act composed. It was to prevent revealing she was unsteady.

However, the biggest weakness of wise beings are when they act composed without intending to do so. All wise beings know this.

"Oh, why, thank you," Eirin said as she took the sake.

"How rude. It is not poisoned." This seemed to be a running gag to Yukari.

"Hm? But small amounts of poison can be medicine."

Eirin said as she drank the sake.

And the moment it passed through her lips, she froze.

Beside her, Kaguya and a drunken Reimu were talking about something.

"But y'know, the Lunar Capital was a lot more primitive than I thought. Like the, the buildings and stuff..."

Kaguya laughed.

"Of course you would. That's why you Earthlings will remain forever inferior."

"What are you saying?"

"Living in houses built out of wood that will never weather away, blessed by nature, quietly playing shogi after finishing our standardized tasks... Is that not the lifestyle humans desire once their technology becomes sufficiently advanced in the far future?"

Reimu took another drink.

"I think we'd like a more fancy lifestyle."

"The only humans who desire that are those who are dead. But it is certain that the lifespan of humans will continue to lengthen. What do you think about that?"

"Invent something to shorten the lifespan, right? It's not like you can keep living after your brain's rotted away."

This answer surprised Kaguya. She truly felt the difference between the pure Lunar Capital and Gensokyo where life and death was a part of their everyday life.

Marisa was talking to Remilia.

"Man, I've had more than enough of all this moon business."

"Why?" asked Remilia, cocking her head.

"Well, I'm glad we got back and all, but that rocket was just a one-way deal, y'know? So wasn't it just a missile?"

"That was because we used the Sumiyoshi Sanjin. On the way there, we lost two parts of it. Since there aren't any six-part gods, we did not have enough to both go to and return from the moon." Remilia waved her finger in the air as if drawing a spiral. It seems it was supposed to represent a six-stage rocket.

"You shoulda done the math for the flesh-and-blood humans like me. On the other hand, you woulda been fine if you were just tied to the thing, bein' a vampire."

"Hmph. If it came to that, I would just fly to the moon myself." Remilia spread her arms out and looked toward the ceiling.

"Better do somethin' about that whole "weak to sunlight" part then."

Marisa laughed as she took another drink. She honestly thought that even Remilia was fed up with the moon.

Eirin took another drink.

There was no doubt about it. Whatever labor they went through to get this sake, it was no ordinary venture. This was not some cheap swill that businessmen would drink after hours, incomprehensible babble spilling from their mouths.

It was an exceedingly ancient sake that had been aging for over a thousand years in the Lunar Capital. Yes, it was likely sleeping even at the time when Eirin fled for Earth.

"Wh-What is this...?" Eirin was clearly shaken. She had shown composure without intending, meaning it was the moment Yukari had been waiting for to strike.

Eirin could never forget the taste of that sake. The purity that was impossible to obtain on the impure Earth, and the deep flavor that came from its millennium-long slumber.

"It must have been centuries since you left your hometown. I thought you were becoming distraught with homesickness, so I had some sake from the Lunar Capital prepared for you."

Yukari grinned.

That ominous smile left a deep scar in Eirin's mind, something she would never be able to forget. To make those who cannot die question the meaning of living. To make them fear the unknown, what they cannot understand.

That was the true intention behind Yukari's Second Lunar Invasion. 

Gensokyo shines with silver in the early afternoon.

Pristine white snow falls gently and silently to the earth, turning the land into a fantastical dreamscape. All that could be heard were faint cries like the shrieks of youkai.

Not a footprint can be found in the fresh powder that covered the road. Humans do not often come this far.

At the end of this unmarked path there may be found a mysterious shop, whose proprietor may often be found warming himself by a stove from the Outside World, reading some incomprehensible book. He always seems to have plenty of time for this on his hands.

Within the shop may be found numerous articles from the Outside World. Although Gensokyo is frozen in what the Outside World would call the Meiji Era, many items from later times may be found here. The purposes of most of these items are unknown.

On the store's sign are the characters Kourindou. This is the place of Kourindou Curio Shop.

"Mr. Rinnosuke?"

It seems we have our first visitor in a long time. I wanted to continue reading, but, as they say, "the customer is God". I couldn't just pretend to be out.

"You're in there, aren't you?"

The goddess dressed in red had no need to bother preventing my potential ruse as she was already behind me.

"Oh, it's just you, Reimu. Don't I always tell you not to just walk into my living room uninvited?"

"Forget that, just listen to me. I ran into a bit of trouble, so..."

This is her. The girl in red before my eyes who doesn't listen to a word anyone says. Her name is Reimu Hakurei. She's the only shrine maiden in Gensokyo, but from her actions one would doubt whether she's truly a shrine maiden or not. Pardon the late introduction, but I'm Rinnosuke Morichika. I run this antique store. As Reimu brushed the snow off her shoulders she started chattering away.

"I went out to the village to shop today. For what? I was running out of tea, so I figured I should buy some before the lack of tea gets bad enough to kill me. Well, I won't die, but-- Hey, are you listening to me?"

"You don't listen to me, so I'm not listening to you," is what I wanted to say but, "Yeah, I'm listening," is what came out.

"But, you know, there wasn't any good tea... oh, this doesn't have anything to do with it but the traveler's guardian deity in the village was completely covered in snow, I mean, who the heck was in charge of the umbrella? Wait, which god was it anyway?"

Well, it looks like if I don't give her a little push in the right direction, the conversation will diverge off into discussing the first emperor of Japan.

"The God of Harm, who prevents catastrophe from occurring in the village. You said you ran into trouble, so what happened?"

"Well, I finished shopping without anything really happening."

Without anything happening, huh?

"But then on the way back, a youkai was just sitting there minding its own business. And it was enjoying a book, too!"

I tried to say "Isn't that all right? It's not a big deal," but I was ignored.

"I tried to exterminate it with a surprise attack, but it retaliated! It was pretty cocky and kind of strong. I let my guard down, so I didn't expect shots to come from behind..."

One can only think that the youkai was the unfortunate one. But I wonder what happened, if she was the one who did the surprise attack yet let her guard down.

"Mr. Rinnosuke, are you listening?"

"Yeah, I'm not."

"...Well, anyway, I beat the stuffing out of it and then came here."

Seems that no matter how I replied, I'd get the same response. Reimu turned her back to me and said, "See!" and puffed her cheeks.

"And I just got this skirt, too..."

"That's quite a tear. I see very well why you want me to fix it."

"Right now."

Yes, ma'am. Reimu seemed cold, so I made space for one more beside the stove.

"I can't possibly mend it that fast. Just sit here for..."

*Footsteps*

"I'll just borrow these clothes and change, so hold on a bit."

Gone. She walked right into the back of the store again. She is truly an audacious one.

Sheesh. I headed back to my seat and decided to continue reading my book, but my stretched out hand grasped nothing but air. The book was floating above.

"What'cha readin', Kourin?"

A black shadow spoke. I've had a bad feeling about her showing up ever since my teacup went missing this morning.

"Hey, I always say this, but--"

"Don't just waltz in here. Right?"

Every single one of them... The girl in black before my eyes is Marisa Kirisame. A magician whose speech is a little unique. She gets along well with Reimu. She's a frequent visitor to the store, but I can never tell if she has any business or not.

"What're you here for today, Marisa?"

"I don't really get this book. Hup! Nothin' much, but I ain't goin' anywhere."

Nothin' much, huh? As she said that, she brushed off the dust on a pot for sale and sat down on it.

"...That's the 12th volume of a series, the continuation of the books piled up here. You wouldn't be able to understand that book without reading the ones before it."

"Oh, 'The Future of the Non-Neumann-Type Computer'? Man, I can't even figure out what it's about by the title."

"It's a spell book from the outside world. You probably wouldn't be interested at all but I am."

"Hmm, spells from the outside world... What kinda magic is that, Kourin?"

"I'm still in the middle of reading it, but... they use calculation familiars called "computers", and those do exactly as they're ordered. Of course, those are clearly shikigami, but I'm still not quite sure what kind of power they use."

"Shikigami, huh? ...Hey, isn't this Reimu's stuff? She here?"

Either Marisa wasn't interested in shikigami or just wanted to change the topic. I told her the details of Reimu's arrival. I said, "You're kind of like Reimu," or some other conversation filler while she dug around Reimu's belongings, and pulled out three books in them.

I felt a light jolt. Those books are part of the same series as these 12 volumes I have here. Why does Reimu have them...?

"Hm? Interested in these books? Knowin' Reimu, I bet she thought, 'They looked pretty important to the youkai so I'll take them,' or somethin'."

With the 12 volumes I have on hand and the three volumes there, that's a total of 15 volumes combined. I have no doubt that this is a set of 15 volumes. The shikigami of the outside world are the same as the ones in Gensokyo after all. With computers, F represents 15 and F represents a state of maximum capacity. It is written that when everything becomes F, the highest value is held.

I think that it's natural for 15 to have power. Even in ancient times, 15 meant perfection in this country. The same reason the full moon is also known as the fifteenth night. Computers must be familiars that have resulted from the ideas of the East and the beauty of the moon.

Marisa asked me what I was thinking about as she lined up the three books.

Through Marisa's nonchalant actions, I realized something else. When lined up, the numbers on the books, "13", "14", and "15", make 131415. If the 1 in front is removed... it then depicts the number that represents a perfect circle, 3.1415. This also means a full moon, and thus affirms my theory that the familiars of the outside world use its power.

I wanted to research more in regards to the shikigami of the outside world, but to do that I required these books.

"...Kourin. You plan on makin' a deal with Reimu? Forget it, her idea of value is completely different from everyone else."

Indeed, Reimu is too detached from this world. Normal exchange conditions wouldn't suffice. However, I can still make a deal with Reimu, for I have a general understanding of her values.

It was then that I heard the returning footsteps of the books' owner.

"Thanks for waiting. Geez, these clothes are way too big. It's so hard to walk."

Reimu expressed her dissatisfaction as she returned. Well, those are my clothes so it can't be helped. There's a significant size difference between us, but she's the one who took the clothes in the first place.

"Oh? If it isn't Marisa. What are you doing in a place like this?"

"That's my line. I just came to check if there was anythin' new in stock, just like a good customer."

"Reimu, this is a store. Could you not call it 'a place like this'?"

"But whenever I come, I never see any customers. The location isn't so great either."

I began reading the book I was previously reading as Marisa retorted, "I thought I just said I'm a customer." Reimu walked up to one of the cupboards, took out a teapot, and began preparing tea as if she owned the place. They do whatever they want as usual. They're not even customers.

While I was glancing at Reimu's books, I thought to myself that I must pretend to not have noticed them at all in order to make them mine.

"Anyway, I'll take up your request to mend your clothes. But you know I won't just do it for free, right?"

Without turning to face me, Reimu asked, "Why?".

"Why? Are you kidding? A business, you see, requires customers to pay suitable compensation for their services."

"I know that much. I pay the shopkeepers when I go shopping like normal. The same goes for my shrine. Wishes are granted in return for offerings."

"Are you saying I'm not 'normal'?"

"But you aren't interested in money, are you?"

"When did I ever say that? Don't just decide things on your own."

"Well, you never take any cash."

"What're you saying? The fees for all your requests and everything you took from here is all on your tab."

As she poured tea into her teacup, she replied,

"That's because I never walk around with money. But it's not like there's any at home either."

"Because nobody gives to your shrine, huh? Maybe it doesn't grant requests no matter how hard you pray."

"Oh, I see. Since you suddenly brought this up, you're after these books aren't you?"

Reimu placed her teacup down, sat beside me, and began gathering the books that were soon to be mine.

"...Reimu, those books aren't enough to cover your tab."

"They looked pretty important to the youkai I exterminated. They're definitely worth something."

Marisa looked at me with a face that said, "Told ya so". I was about to let out a laugh because of it, but I held it in.

"Well, let me have a look then. ...Hm, I see. They're well-made, but they look new. When it comes to these kind of things, older ones are more valuable. They're nothing special after all. They were probably just something that youkai doesn't see often, so it took them."

"Then those books for everything on my tab sounds like a fair deal," she said with a smirk.

She doesn't listen to others and has no understanding of the concept that things have a value, a price. To her, money is nothing more than some sort of paper or metal. However, she must've faintly realized that I wanted them. But anyway...

"All right then. I'll take those three books from you."

"Huh? All three?"

"One for mending your clothes. One for renting the clothes you're wearing now. And the last one..."

"Ah, wait a second, what about the tab?"

"Hey, exactly how much do you think is on your tab? It's not too much, but you can't cover it with just those books."

That's the truth. Reimu takes things from the shop and requests clothes and tools. I even prepared her purification rod.

"No way around it, huh. All right then, what's leftover on the tab will stay there."

I looked out through the window. That's right, I've had a bad feeling since this morning.

"By the way, the last one is the fee for the door repairs!"

*Loud knocking*

The sounds of banging against the shop's door steadily grew louder. One book might not be worth the trouble...

"I know the girl in red is in there! She's the one that took my books!"

By the door was a furious little girl, or what seemed to be. Her clothes are a mess, she must be the one Reimu claimed to have exterminated earlier.

"Geez, you're persistent. I beat you so just go back into the forest like a good youkai!"

"Huh? You're not red."

"I'm blue today."

"Just give me my books back!"

"Even if you tell me to, I can't do anything about it. I don't have them anymore, so give up."

"How cruel... then where are they!?"

The books are mine now, and of course, I have no intention of returning them. However, I'm unable to do anything rough. The girls told me how it was "amazing you managed to live so long like that," but I think it's normal, and I've lived "many times" longer than they have. ...I glared sharply at Reimu.

"...Hey, Marisa! You look pretty bored."

"Huh, what? Ya reap what ya sow. Do it yourself."

"I can't move well in these clothes. She isn't much of a fight, so you can take her, Marisa. ...But watch out for attacks from behind."

"Are you sayin' she should get her revenge on you with me? Geez, Reimu..."

Marisa hopped off the pot, and headed towards the girl in a seemingly good mood.

"Put it on my tab."

Of course, I've never seen Reimu give Marisa money at all.

"Well, there you have it. The girl in red gave up. Her parent will be takin' her place instead."

"...How are you her parent? There's no way you're related!"

"She was an abandoned child."

Reimu returned to her seat and began drinking tea.

"If you're going to fight, do it outside of the shop. If you destroy anything else, you're going to be paying for everything."

Marisa said "Yeah, I know," and forced the youkai out.

"Anyway, Kourin, good for you for gettin' all fifteen volumes."

Surprised, I looked at Marisa. I don't remember saying anything about it being a fifteen-volume set.

"Why do you think there are fifteen?"

Marisa threw the book she was holding towards me.

"Check out the back of that book."

I turned the book over and flipped open the back cover. "15-Volume Set" was written in small print.

It's snowing outside. If I don't get the door repaired soon, it's going to be unpleasant in here.

"Seriously, Reimu. Whenever you come here, nothing good ever happens."

"The shop itself has nothing good. Here, tea."

I sat down beside her and took the tea. It had an extremely pleasant scent.

"Ah, this tea. You used the tea leaves from the back of the shelf, didn't you?"

And here I thought it was tea Reimu bought herself.

"They had the best smell to them."

"It's my stash of the finest tea. I was saving it for a special occasion, too..."

"Oh, will there ever be such an occasion?"

Reimu was completely relaxed and cheerful. The sounds of Marisa's enjoyment and laughter and the cries of her youkai opponent could be heard.

This is relatively the usual. I don't think of these days as special.

"You're not going to sell those books, right? Your stock here hasn't changed at all."

The majority of the wares here are my collection. I certainly don't want to let go of anything so easily.

"No, they're all merchandise."

...Maybe I'm not suited to be a merchant.

"Hey, Kourin! What's up? Today's our routine hot pot day!"

She shouted as she threw open the door. As far as I'm concerned, today's Animal Protection Day.

"Oh, it's you, Marisa? What's the meaning of coming here and claiming this to be a 'hot pot day'?"

Marisa showed me what she had in her right hand, and there it was, a limp, red-and-white lump...

Some way from the Human Village in Gensokyo is the Forest of Magic, and close by this forest is my shop, Kourindou. In other words, it's halfway between where the humans live and where the youkai are. I thought that I could do business with both humans and youkai in this location, but the truth is that I almost never have clients of either kind. Well, it gets lively at times, but...

"Isn't that a crested ibis? What happened?"

"Yeah, I caught it by the shrine. Reimu's preparin' stuff for the hot pot, so she'll be late."

"And why did you decide to meet at my place? You never even asked."

"What are you talkin' about? This'll make a great meal! Sure, he looks a bit worse for the wear, but..."

The crested ibis. More and more of these birds have been appearing in Gensokyo every year. Wherever they become roused, the sky would become dyed in their colors. Yet their meat tastes good, despite their shabby appearances. The hot pot too, would end up dyed in that ibis color, almost a scarlet red. Not a nice way to put it, but it'd look like a human hot pot made by a vampire.

"Well, I guess it's fine, but why hot pot, all of a sudden?"

"Isn't it obvious? Cold days are all about hot pots."

Marisa continued to chatter while barging into the kitchen. "Well, I just found 'im by chance, but he was pretty lively until a while ago."

Gensokyo is, quite literally, a place where illusionary creatures dwell. At some point, the people in the outside world wrote off "illusionary creatures" as nothing more than "fantasy creatures". But, of course, illusionary creatures and fantasy creatures are very different. A fantasy creature is just another name for a delusion, misinterpretation or misunderstanding. On the other hand, an illusionary creature is one that can only be found in Gensokyo. It goes without saying, then, that both Marisa and I are also illusionary creatures.

However, the reason behind the sudden proliferation of crested ibises is something I don't understand. Could it be that they have become "illusionary birds"? That would be unthinkable in the outside world I knew, but then again, too much time has elapsed since then. As much as I try to imagine the outside world from limited literature and old memories, it would amount to nothing more than imaginations. An imagination plagued by imaginations is no more than a fantasy. For imaginations, I rank them in the order of Fantasy, Delusion, Prediction, the Virtual, and Illusion.[1]

"Sorry for the wait! Marisa is here, too, right?"

"...I wasn't waiting. How could I when you girls showed up so suddenly?"

"Well, of course we came suddenly. But you should be waiting at all times. Isn't this a shop and everything?"

Reimu came just as Marisa said. She was carrying several bags with her. Ingredients for the hot pot, I guess.

"Hey, Reimu! Took ya long enough! Let's get this hot pot cookin'."

Marisa had her arm outstretched, with a feeling of "C'mon, hand it over!" to it.

"I brought everything, yes."

"Huh? This is red miso. Who told you to bring red miso?"

"I didn't need to be told. Red miso is the obvious choice for ibis broth!"

"Hey, hey! The hot pot is already red enough, so we should make it with white miso. Putting red miso in red broth? Are ya some kind of Communist?"

"It's not like you aren't going to eat because of the color. Since ibis meat is red to begin with, it shouldn't bother you, right? And why white miso? This isn't the Genpei War."[2]

The two of them went on about food coloring, but I wasn't listening. Regardless, Marisa was holding the ibis, and every time she gave it a squeeze, the ibis would squawk. It was kind of weird, like the ibis was supporting her. I'm sure Marisa was doing that on purpose.

"Don't red pickles go with tonkotsu? Wouldja put it in miso ramen?"

"And doesn't fukujinzuke go with curry? But knowing you, you'd probably throw it in cream stew."

"Having somethin' red in the middle of somethin' white is the sign of a Japanese soul!"

"I'm already red and white enough. And what part of you has a Japanese soul, Marisa? Do you even know what 'Wabi-sabi' is?"

"I don't think ya know yerself, Reimu."

"Of course I don't."

"Anyway, we're not makin' a hot pot like that."

"Wasn't it you who came up with the hot pot idea? We can't eat this ibis raw."

"So is that how it is? Alright then, let's just divide it now."

"Decide it?"[3]

"Yeah, that'll work, too. Wanna go?"

In the end, it seems like they decided to settle the matter in a shooting duel, without so much as asking for my advice (even though they came to my shop uninvited). The rules were: 1-on-1 with Spellcard Rules. If Reimu won, the hot pot would be done her way; if Marisa won, she'd apparently make her go buy white miso. Never mind that I had white miso in my place, they seemed to be enjoying themselves, so I just let them be. Speaking of which, I actually know the tastiest way to cook a crested ibis...

"Marisa, what do I always tell you?"

"If you're gonna fight, then go outside, right?"

"More importantly, could you divide the bird up for Marisa, Mr. Rinnosuke?"

Their objectives seem to have changed already. Whatever the result is, I guess they'll happily eat it however I cook it. I could go as far as to think they arranged this scenario from the beginning, since it always follows the same pattern. Those two are frequently dueling to decide the most insignificant things. On top of that, they've been using attacks with lots of projectiles. It's extremely bright, and hard on the eyes.

Their duels are always a study in contrast. Against the gung-ho Marisa, Reimu - either on purpose or naturally - fights in a more laid-back style. The duels mostly go Reimu's way, but Marisa doesn't always lose. It's just that Marisa attacks with all her skill and might against Reimu, who looks just like she was made of air; it's like trying to pound a nail into dust. Any way, when looking at Reimu, she gives off a feeling that she is not quite from our own world. Anything more than that is something one cannot quite grasp.

"Hey, that's dangerous! What if it had hit me, Marisa!? Geez..."

"Aw, c'mon! Why didn't it hit?"

"Your bullets swerve to avoid me on their own. How nice of them!"

"They're flyin' straight..."

Since I could hear their voices, I went to see how things were going. Reimu looked like she would practically teleport at times. And her bullets would fly guided in impossible directions. It was kind of unfair.

Well then, this nice, round ibis looks really tasty; I've never seen one like it before. Speaking of which, Marisa said something that bothered me...

"Sorry for the wait, we've just made a decision."

"Yes, you always make me wait like this. I already made the hot pot. With red miso, as expected."

"Grrr... You already prepared the hot pot? What would ya do if I had won, Kourin?"

"I would have had you eat an ibis cooked in the tastiest way."

The Hakurei Shrine is located in the edge of Gensokyo. And by edge, that doesn't mean only in the physical sense. There is the border between the outside world and Gensokyo. Because of that, the Hakurei Shrine is not an entirely "illusionary place". And Marisa said she caught the ibis by the Shrine. It may be that this ibis is indeed from the outside world. So it would seem that crested ibises are not Illusionary Birds yet. I feel somewhat relieved. 

My heater from the outside world has been making whistling noises. It has some switches I don't quite understand, but since I press them and nothing happens, I'm using it in my own original way. Lately, the fire has been too strong at times, so it gets a little dangerous.

Speaking of fire, there has been an increase of cremations in Gensokyo lately. Until now cremations were almost never performed to dispose of dead human remains 
 well, those probably ended up as youkai food. Maybe it's because the youkai are attempting to act more civilized so that the ones that would eat rotten meat seem to be decreasing as of late. If you see it from the side of the humans in Gensokyo, those remains simply can't be left neglected, for both sanitary and spiritual reasons, so apparently there's little choice but to cremate them.

On the other hand, wouldn't that reduce the opportunities for new youkai to be born? ...Humans don't have many chances to be anything but humans. And if they do, those are mostly after they die. If they are cremated, it would be difficult for them to become Jiang Shi, Vampires, or other such beings.

Well, maybe that's a good thing. And besides, there are times when youkai can be born from ashes. Phantoms, specially, might be easily formed this way. Speaking of which, it feels like there has been an increase of phantoms in Gensokyo lately. Maybe this is an effect of the cremations, and maybe not... However, the phantoms these days sure are cheerful and high-spirited. But after all, phantoms, as far as Gensokyo is concerned...

Knock, knock.

Someone had arrived, but I hesitated in saying "Welcome.". Usually the visitors are the ones to start with the boisterous talk, because they usually are not customers.

"Is someone there?"

"Huh? Ahhh, welcome! How may I help you?"

"I'm looking for just the right kind of teacups. Would you happen to have some here?"

There was a girl with the appearance of a maid standing there. (Although the frequency is low, I DO have real customers!). My expectation was unusually off, but that's because I always have only one expectation. If a customer shows up, it will always be wrong.

"Yes, I surely do. What kind of cup would you like?"

"A small, pretty, white one... You see, the kind of white cup that would look nice with dark liquids, and it can't be too heavy. But the real issue is the shape, which should be a little complex... Well, I'll decide about that when I see them. Oh, and I need a pair of them."

"Err, I see..."

A complicated request. It almost seems like an exam for a Cup Expert certification. This is a rather difficult problem. Solving it while I try to remember just where the cups are in the piles of merchandise might be a little too difficult.

"...Well, I have all kinds of cups. It's for drinking black tea, right?"

"Well, it's in the same style as cups for black tea."

"The cups for black tea were around here, I believe..."

Black tea and coffee are major luxury items in Gensokyo. It's been established that the youkai that drifted here naturally brought with them foreign countries' cultures and things like tools and books. Even if Gensokyo is isolated as an area, it's very international in spirit.

Well, I just found an antique case. I'm sure that in this case were two cups that I liked.

"Here it is! I think these will be to your lik..."

I was astonished when I opened the case. Those weren't the shapes I was expecting to see inside. There was a teacup, and something that once was a teacup lying there in several broken pieces... Yes, one of my favorites was cruelly broken.

"Which ones?"

"Err, no, just a moment."

Even in my disappointment, I noticed that there was a single sheet of paper inside the case. What could that be? I reached for the paper, but...

"Hmm, this appears to be Marisa's writing, yes? 'Sorry'? What does that mean?"

"!?"

What just happened? Why wasn't I holding the paper? And I really mean "Why?". This girl was holding it before I realized it.

"Here, please have it back."

I looked at the paper she handed me. The only thing written there was a 'Sorry'. ...That Marisa, what should I do to her the next time she comes by?

I quickly recovered from my confusion. I shouldn't bother too much with things I don't understand. If you don't do that, you can't live in Gensokyo.

"Yes, just like you said. I really like these. Can I take them?"

I take that back. I'm still confused. She liked the broken cup?

"Huh? I-is that so? Well, I do like them... but they are not exactly normal."

As for small, they are as small as they get (because they are in pieces), and they aren't heavy. Just as requested.

"They are so pretty, and they will look wonderful with black tea. They are exactly what the Mistress wished for."

Yeah, but you may bleed if you touch them...

Knock-knock-knock.

"Hey! Sakuya, are you in there?"

This time I wasn't wrong. It's usual for the noise to begin in less than 3 seconds after the door opens. And of course, this red one is not a customer.

"My, it seems to be Reimu. When did you return to the shrine? And you brought the Mistress, too..."

"Who cares when I returned?! What's with going inside the shrine when there's nobody there!? And on top of that, you leave this one there doing I don't know what."

"We did not do a thing. There were no suitable cups at the shrine, so we could not have a proper tea time."

"I won't treat people that come inside on their own to tea!"

It seems that entering other people's homes at will seems to be a tradition among the girls of Gensokyo.

By the way, the name of the customer is Sakuya. And this mistress that Reimu brought along is called Remilia. Sakuya is a maid in Remilia's service. But, the mistress is quite obviously a vampire. It seems like they were taking a walk and decided to stop by the shrine.

"Even during a stroll, tea time is indispensable. And with fine cups, of course."

"Remilia, in the first place, why are you walking about in the middle of the day, even though you're a vampire? Shouldn't you be inside a coffin?"

"I can still have a sunbath viewing. And by the way, coffins are for holding dead people. You seem to have a misunderstanding."

A sunbath viewing apparently consists of appreciating the sight of other people sunbathing.

"Anyway, what am I going to do if rumors of a devil at the shrine start to spread!?"

"You don't have to do anything. Besides, the offertory box was empty."

"But that may be because it is a godless shrine. Right, Mistress?"

"Don't call it godless!"

I'm probably the only one that knows about the origins of the Hakurei Shrine. I thought about telling them now to restore Reimu's honor, but... it's not really important, so I rejected that notion. How sad.

"Oh, right, Sakuya. Did you find the fine teacups?"

"Yes, I believe I did. They are quite splendid."

And then I was immersed in confusion again. What am I going to do about that cup? Its pair is in pieces.

"Here, Mistress. Can you see them?"

Sakuya opened the lid of the case, and lowered it so that her mistress could see.

Why is a broken cup acceptable? Maybe this is some kind of riddle. That's it; there must be a meaning behind the broken pair. For example, the black tea and the cup pieces would represent a pond of blood and a mountain of splinters, like it was a choice between two kinds of Hell... For a devil and her maid, that must certainly be it!

However, when Remilia saw the cups, she showed a doubtful and disturbed expression on her face. That was a more human reaction than I expected. 

"Huh? What in the world is this?"

Remilia pointed inside the box with a tired air.

Well, that's an understandable reaction. Sakuya came to buy teacups and chose a broken one. I thought Remilia had some strange reasons behind her orders, but it seems I was wrong. I could surprisingly relate to Remilia's feelings.

"Hmm? 'What', you say? Why, they are teacups. Are they not to your liking?"

"It's a remarkably avant-garde design. For example, even if you take it by the handle, one third won't come with it, so you almost wouldn't think it's a cup at all... But it would be better if more of it could hold liquid."

"But isn't it a nice style? I really like this relaxing and refined antique feel it has. And the shopkeeper also said he liked it, right?"

"So even the shopkeeper likes this odd design."

Remilia was giving me a dubious, pitiful look. Well, I used to like them. If she starts thinking that I'm trying to push a broken cup onto them, I'll be in trouble.

"Oh, and what is this paper?"

The paper with Marisa's apology was inside the case, too.

"I believe it to be an expert's appraisal or something like that."

"Are there such things as appraisals with only 'Sorry' written on them?"

"It is an 'I could not appraise it.' appraisal."

"It's like a magician's introduction of 'Nothing up my sleeves.', then?"

That would be highly improbable.

Maybe Reimu got tired of their wordplay, because she went to have tea by herself. Speaking of which, I wonder why there's a chawan just for Reimu at my place anyway.

"I will ask again, Sakuya. Just what in the world is that?"

"Like I said, it is an avant-garde teacup."

"Did I ask for such thing?"

"Indeed you asked for it to be small, light, unusual, pretty..."

"Well, this one is pretty, though."

It is?

"And besides, it has a more refined air than the ones at the shrine, does it not?"

"Their shapes are indeed similar, but..."

Their shapes are similar? Are there such avant-garde (meaning not limited to the original form) cups at the shrine? I asked Reimu about that.

"I don't know about any cups like that."

"Oh, you don't? They were there just before I sent Sakuya out."

"She could not know about that, Mistress. It was after we arrived that the cups became 'avant-garde'."

"Wha...? So you broke my cups!?"

For a while, the shop resounded with a barrage of Reimu's angry words.

Right, that's what happened. They broke Reimu's teacups, so they came to buy replacements. But then why would they buy a broken cup?

"Sakuya, I did indeed ask for cups that looked like Reimu's. But, I didn't mean how it looked afterward, but how it looked before it changed. Didn't you understand that?"

"Oh, is that so? I was sure you wished for a cup that made a set with Reimu's."

"This is not a set, it's a mix."

"But if I bought normal cups, you were planning on saying something like 'What were you thinking!? Their shapes are completely different!', correct?"

"I... I wouldn't say that."

Maybe you would. Even for a maid, it must be hard to accompany this childish (even though she's apparently over 500 years old) and malicious mistress. But if you wanted a broken cup, isn't it just a matter of buying a normal one and breaking it? That's what I thought, but that might as well be the Gensokyo girls' idea of a joke. If I think about it too much I'll get tired. That's why I take that stance of not worrying too much about things I can't understand.

"I understand. You want normal cups, then?"

"If that is what you think, do as you please, Sakuya."

"Of course, that is just what I am thinking."

Good grief, those girls are a completely different type of bother than Reimu and Marisa. Anyway, the moment I was thinking that I had to go searching for another cup, I heard Sakuya's voice.

"Well, these teacups are trash, then."

What!? Wait a moment! I turned around in confusion to face Sakuya, but it was already too late. She had thrown the case and the cups high up in the air!

The fragments were dancing in mid-air! Time seemed to run slowly due to the tension, like an illusion! One of the cups was still in one piece. But even if they were both broken, what kind of person just throws them!? Even the carefree one drinking her tea seemed surprised! And I became even more worried if Reimu was going to drop her chawan from astonishment. As for Remilia, her bat-style wings were completely outstretched. I'm not sure if that was because of the tension or the surprise, though...

...But, the cups are sure taking some time to fall. Hasn't the case already hit the ground? Well, that's obvious considering the time... The piece of paper with Marisa's 'Sorry' written on it was fluttering in mid-air.

"So, how was it? Real sleight of hand, without any props."

I couldn't see even one piece of the cup on the floor! Surprised, I turned to Sakuya and, mysteriously, she was holding the cup. However, more mysteriously than that...

In the end, the teacups were sold without a problem, and the two of them left the shop. Remilia seemed greatly pleased with Sakuya's performance. Reimu was in mute amazement for a while, but then she must have remembered that those two were going to the shrine, so she left behind the half-drunken tea and chased after them.

As for me, I didn't understand how Sakuya could gather all the pieces of the cup she threw, much less how could she perfectly restore the broken cup to its former shape. I just stood there dumbfounded for a while...

Several days had passed. By following my "Don't worry too much..." theory, I was able to safely recover from my confusion. Just then, Marisa came to visit and after I scolded her about the cup, I made her listen to what happened. She started explaining with her usual way of speaking "Nothin' weird about that.". Apparently, Sakuya has this ability "to stop time". Of course, this way, even if thrown, she could catch the cup before it broke. You could indeed say that there weren't any props.

But wait a moment... This ability couldn't restore a broken cup, could it? Something's not right. Even though I should have given up, I started to think about it again. Yes, there's a way to restore a cup only by stopping time. The more I thought about it, the more my brain focused on a single concern.

"That's it, the cup that I 'used' to like didn't look like that!"

With a bad feeling, I looked through my piles of merchandise. That customer is the type to knowingly do something so unbelievable! Well, I did sell it, so there's no real loss, but... I checked most of the merchandise, so the only one left... is it the pile Marisa is sitting on top of? I moved Marisa, and under her I found a refined-looking case. That's the one, no doubt about it. With Marisa peeking along, I fearfully opened the lid.

Both Marisa and I recognized the sheet of Japanese paper and the cup fragments. And on top of the Japanese paper there was a new slip of western paper, bearing the words "My apologies". Truly a magician's 'appraisal'. 

I travel down a gloomy, unmarked path. My clothes feel twice as heavy as usual. A natural result of this drizzle, of course.

Be it sunlight or pouring rain, this forest's leaves will dissipate it completely. Whether it's sunny or rainy doesn't make much of a difference here. You can't even tell if it's night or day... I really like this unbounded feeling a lot.

But it sure is hard to walk when your skirt is so heavy. I feel the rough object I'm carrying within in it, and look up. Come to think of it, wasn't it drizzly on the day I got this, too?

He had been running a shop here for as long as I can remember. I don't really like to think about the past often but, well, I remember lots of stuff and the pleasant dimness inside the shop. Yes, there was no such thing as day or night, human or youkai there. It's that kind of place. It's definitely comfortable there, but there's just one thing I can't stand.

It probably has to do with my family, but he's so stiff towards me. Well, of course, since before I was born he was an apprentice to the Kirisame family. In the end, it seems he said that by dealing with our everyday merchandise and human customers he couldn't make the most of his "ability", and struck out on his own. This ability of his, though... it's just a so-so ability that can neither kill nor revive. Just a while ago he was saying stuff like "This is a heater.", and how he uses it in a really weird way. In any case, since long ago he's been reserved when it comes to me, even though I already said I'm not going back to live with my family.

Just then, I saw a fairy sitting on some huge mushrooms. This type of mushroom can cheer up people, so I'll take some to recover fatigue. He's always being anti-social and listless, so maybe I'll give some to him as a gift.

The forest's mushrooms grow in a blink, and they always grow in different places. They practically pop out of nowhere and vanish just as fast. The forest itself is alive, and it's always changing. But there are things that change even faster than the forest. Like humans. It's really humans that are the elusive ones.

But him, that guy hasn't changed in any way at all since long ago, neither on the outside nor on the inside. For as long as I remember, he was already running this shop, so I don't really know when this apprenticeship story of his happened. How long is he going to live anyway?

There are humans who defy gravity. And there are humans who can stop time, too. But not changing on the outside nor the inside? That may be the one thing no human can imitate. Man, am I jealous.

That's when I realized I had grabbed too many mushrooms so the fairy looked unhappy. It didn't look like I could carry that many, but it seemed a waste to leave them behind, so I just stuffed them inside my hat. They were wet, so they felt a little gross. Wow, I just can't seem to be able to throw stuff away. I amaze myself sometimes.

It was just like when I was living with my parents. During one of his rare visits to my house, he was carrying some scrap of metal, and got in an argument with my father for some reason. I was very young, and even though I desperately tried to listen in, stuff like "crimson ore"[2] and "rare metal" was all I could hear. And after that I got curious and started to gather everything from iron tools to old iron rods and even iron scraps, anything that was metal. In the end, it was pointless, but even now that I've left my parents' home, all the iron scraps I gathered at that time 
 well, trash, really 
 I still have them at my new house. I could throw away my home, but I wouldn't throw away those metal scraps. I sure amaze myself.

While I was remembering these unnecessary things, I saw my destination. The "rin" comes from the being close to the forest and the frequent drizzles. Yes, this is a shop with an owner that would make such an obvious name. The "kou" of incense relates to gods, basically meaning shrine. Geez, this guy really likes this stuff. "Kourindou". This old and small shop is the shrine that sits on the border between human and youkai, drizzle and forest. So in other words, is this place supposed to be the heart of Gensokyo?

There's a drizzle falling today, and on these rainy days, the only thing to do is light a lamp and read a book.

Knock, knock, bam!

"Hey, Heart of Gensokyo! I know it's kinda sudden, but give me something to dry myself."

I saw a black and wet lump. Sure enough, the one destroying my enjoyable reading time was the same troublesome person as always.

"What do you mean by 'heart', Marisa? Oh... You are pretty wet, aren't you? Take this towel and dry yourself."

"Oh, thanks a bunch. And by the way, why are ya readin' a book, Kourin? It's rainin' today, in case ya didn't notice. Don't you always say that 'The only days for reading books are sunny days.'?"

"I said that sunny days are the only ones in which you can read a book with the lights out."

"Oh yeah, I brought ya these. Eat a few and cheer up some."

Marisa handed out her hat to me, while wiping her body. It was full of mushrooms inside.

"Are you telling me to eat these suspicious things? Well, knowing you, they're probably fine..."

"Make some mushroom soup with 'em. Here's the towel back."

"Hey, you aren't dry all the way yet! It'll be bad for my merchandise if you sit on them in those wet clothes."

"This is the part where ya should be worryin' about me gettin' a cold. Anyway, I got a job for ya today. Betcha weren't expectin' that, huh?"

When you admit yourself that you being a customer is unusual, I have nothing cynical left to say. Marisa said "I came to ask ya to fix this.", and pulled something resembling an octagon-shaped incense burner from her skirt. Though it was worn out all over, the rust stood out the most.

"Ahh, this sure is nostalgic. Are you still using this Mini-Hakkero?"

"I abuse it all the time for just about everythin'. It's just gotten rusty."

This Mini-Hakkero is a magical item I made when Marisa left her parents' home. Even though it's small, it has extraordinary firepower. It can reduce a single mountain to ashes. I guess it can also be used for heating, experiments, combat, and more.

"Gee, I can't even think of livin' without it."

"I see. Hearing such things is one of the benefits of being an item-smith."

"That's why I wancha to modify it so it never rusts again. Yeah, make the whole reactor part out of crimson ore."

Hearing such a strange word made me briefly imagine that I wasn't talking to Marisa anymore, so I took a more business-like tone out of reflex.

"Unfortunately, I don't deal in such material."

"Whatcha lack, Kourin, is the ability to lie. You lack a lotta other things, too."

"Hmpf, it's too much of a bother to lie so I'll drop it. But I didn't think you would know about crimson ore."

"You bet I do. It's good stuff, right?"

"Hmm, crimson ore is an incredibly rare metal. However, I do have a little that I guess I could use."

"I'd 'ppreciate it."

Crimson ore is indeed a rust-proof metal. Since its properties practically won't change under any environment, you could likely make the strongest magical items with it. But that said, modifing her Mini-Hakkero would exhaust my supply of this precious metal... What should I do?

While I hesitated, I noticed that there was a strange point to what Marisa had said. This would be my first chance to do business in a while.

"Alright. Since this item is a proud work of mine, I might as well do it."

"Really? That would help me out a lot!"

"However, I do have something to ask in return."

As I said, when you accept a job, it's only natural to ask for something in return. But for Marisa, the terms I proposed to her could be considered easier than paying in money or mushrooms. 

"If I remember correctly, you were gathering iron scraps a while ago. I have no idea what for, though."

"That's my iron scrap treasure."

"Anyway, you were gathering them just for the sake of it, like you always do, right? So, my terms this time are that pile of scraps in exchange for your request. How's that? Getting rid of bothersome stuff as payment is an excellent deal, isn't it?"

"Didn't I say that was treasure? But I guess crimson ore is pretty valuable..."

"Well, for starters, those iron scraps don't really have much value to them, so this job is almost a free bonus. As you know, that Mini-Hakkero..."

"Whoa, I don't need an in-depth explanation."

I know all about Marisa's character. That's because I've been watching her since she was little. She's the type that can't throw things away. And everything she gathers just piles up with no hint of order... All that does is even out the value of everything. Although she seems terribly hesitant about my terms, deep inside she must want to agree right away. It would give her a chance to tidy up a little, and it seems she can't live without the Mini-Hakkero.

"Do ya have any idea of the trouble I went through to gather all those iron scraps?"

"If you're just going to keep them, then all these troubles were for nothing."

"Just gatherin' stuff was my goal. Never thought about usin' them."

"Then haven't you already achieved your goal? Just let these iron scraps rest in peace with me."

"Somethin's fishy here. Wasn't crimson ore a very rare metal?"

"There's also a good reason for you to agree. If you let such an opportunity pass, aren't you afraid of what's going to happen later?"

"Y'know, you don't have to hold back."

When I said "The repairs will take four days.", Marisa replied with "I'll be readin' this book until then.", and grabbed one of my books for sale on her way out. This isn't a library, you know...

Well then, this is the first big job I've had in a long time. I've had hardly any work or customers lately. If it keeps up like this, my "ability" will end up waning; my "ability to the extent of knowing the name and utility of any unknown item". Since I thought that I couldn't make the most of this ability at a normal shop, I opened a shop dealing with curiosities and rare articles, but... curiosities only attract eccentrics. And this ability too has a small problem... The truth is that, even though I can know the name and purpose of something, I won't know exactly how to use it. Well, if I at least know an item's utility, I can find some way to use it.

The mushroom soup's suspiciously good smell was drifting about the room. While preparing dinner, I thought about the Mini-Hakkero. This Mini-Hakkero wasn't just a normal furnace, it was made with a lot of improvements and special qualities. Wind blows from one of the reactor's corners, so you can also use it to cool yourself during summer. And just by holding it, it works as an amulet for protection and good fortune (I think). Anyway, it combines many of the "utilities" of outside world items. These are all part of my customer service (hobbies). Alright, I'll start on it as soon as I finish dinner.

Three days later. Today is sunny. It's the kind of day for reading a book with the lights off.

Knock, knock.

"Done, Kourin?"

"Marisa? Yes, it's done."

Marisa was carrying the metal scraps in her arms. And even though I said it would take four days, she came back in three. Oh well, she's always like that. That's why I always say it takes a day longer.

"Great, thanks. I'll put these here. If ya weren't done, I would've had to take all this back."

"You shouldn't make such unreasonable complaints when you come a day early. Besides, I don't see why you would have to take them back."

"Because the promise was to give them to ya for the finished product."

"Well, whatever. This is the crimson ore Mini-Hakkero. Probably the only one in the world."

Marisa became so excited and was all "So this is crimson ore, huh?". She was so pleased she wouldn't calm down, and went straight back for home, oddly enough.

Several days later, Marisa's happy mood continued.

"I feel so good when I wake up! The air's so great!", she said happily.

Well, then. I thought that if using my precious crimson ore made her this happy, then I could've gone without asking for anything in exchange.

As a matter of fact, this time I secretly mixed in the power of an "item that makes the air cleaner". This mysterious charm had "minus ion" or something like that written on it, and I couldn't quite fathom its manner of use. At least it seemed to be functioning. Knowing the name and purpose of an item, I can manage the rest later some way or another. [1]

"Hey, Kourin. Is it really okay? For it to work so well, this metal must be really precious..."

"Crimson ore is indeed rare, but it's not as efficient as you say. Metal is something that, if you just pile it up without ever using it to make a tool, is nothing but a bunch of scraps. This is something you don't seem to understand."

"But my goal is just gatherin' stuff. Whether I can use it or not comes later."

"It's not whether you can use it or not. The important thing is whether you will use it or not."

"So, are ya goin' to use the iron scraps that I brought ya? Looks like ya've barely even touched them."

I have a reason to be indebted to Marisa. It's nothing more than the fact that I always end up obtaining garbage that she obsessively collects through "unfair deals". At any rate, it's not like Marisa would understand things like the small differences in the properties of materials. Those iron scraps normally would not have been worth bargaining over.

It's just that as Marisa grew up, I was afraid that she would end up finding out... But Marisa hasn't changed one bit. She's still just collecting stuff. A human that doesn't change even a little is a rare sight.

"Don't just stare at me like that. Are ya gonna use 'em or not?"

"I'm not sure. I guess I'll keep them there as a memento."

"That's not what ya said before..."

From the middle of the iron scraps, I pulled out an old sword. There's no way Marisa would really know about crimson ore. That's because this sword is made of it. Marisa always had a sword made of the very metal she wanted in her possession since long ago.

This is "The Sword of Kusanagi", and it's a horribly precious item. One that could change the outside world, at least. While unaware of it, Marisa had a very precious thing right under her nose. Since I have no idea what would happen if I let her keep holding on to it, I wanted to keep it in my custody. Even if I say so myself, I believe this is the right decision.

"Whazza matter? You're just smirkin' and holdin' that dirty sword. It's kinda creepy."

"Ah... uh, I just think it's a nice sword."

"A beat-up sword like that? I bet it can't cut anythin'."

"We can't keep this sword nameless, can we? It was one of your garbage treasures, so what if I name it 'The Sword of Kirisame'?"

"What? Are ya bein' sarcastic?"

"I'm telling you it's a nice sword."

"I think your ability to know names might be gettin' dull, too, Kourin. Oh well, whatever. But you don't have to be so reserved around me. Can't you just call it 'The Sword of Kourin' or somethin'? I'm not goin' back to live with my parents, y'know."

"I'm not... being reserved."

It's just that since I just fooled Marisa and am afraid of what may happen later, I'm putting my guard up. So that even if she finds out she has been fooled when she grows up, she doesn't come asking for it back. And besides, if I don't give it a short-lived name, then there's no point to it.

But then, Kourindou's collection of items not for sale has just increased by one. If the shop becomes full of these, I won't be able to speak up against Marisa's collecting obsession. It appears that collecting for the sake of collecting is becoming my objective, too. That alone worries me. 

Once a year, the humid Japanesque rainy season comes to a close, and Kourindou is allowed to bathe in intense sunlight again.

The rainy season promotes the spread of mildew which damages books and tools, causing no end to the troubles of my antique shop. That melancholic time of year has finally announced its end.

...However, my worries have not yet cleared up.

It's not that I especially dislike the summer sunlight. The strong sunbeams make the shop's interior darker; possibly because of the angle. The contrast of the darkness of the shop and the brightness outside the window really makes it feel like summer. I like both the darkness and brightness.

However, this summer is different. The strength of the sunbeams prove, without a doubt, that midsummer has arrived. But more light than necessary is shining in through the window... It's as if the shop were standing next to a body of water, with the reflected light illuminating the interior. This absurd brightness doesn't feel like summer. For some reason, it seems this type of weather is only occurring around my shop. What's more, it's been like this for three days now.

Unfortunately, investigating "incidents" like this is not my specialty. Usually, even in the slightest occurrence of an incident, there would be people around to solve it for me immediately. Except... as it seems that only the area around my shop has been affected for one reason or another, it looks like she hasn't noticed yet. But going to request an investigation in the middle of this kind of weather is troublesome...

Well, knowing her, she's bound to show up even if I leave her alone. She always comes when it doesn't matter, or when it does matter. I don't know if that's a help or a hindrance...

Knock, knock.

"Hey! Why's the rain only falling around your shop!"

See? There she is. The incident specialist I mentioned. "Well, if it isn't Reimu."

"You came just at the right-" is what I was about to say, but for now I'll see how things will turn out with Investigative Specialist Reimu. She might know something about this incident.

"Of course it's me. Jeez, don't you even know what state your own store is in?"

Though the rainy season is over, the rainfall continued to fall with no sign of stopping. It is indeed a strange occurrence. Not a cloud can be seen in the endless blue sky, yet this phenomenon is solely located in the vicinity of my shop. However, for the time being, I've decided to pretend to ignore it.

"What kind of state are you talking about?"

"I'm shocked. Don't you go outside at all? It's raining so hard around your shop you can't even see outside. And there aren't even any clouds... From a distance, it looks like there's a white blanket covering just this area. You're not running any weird experiments again, are you?"

"Ah, so it really was just around the shop."

Well, I knew that.

"What are you scheming?"

"Nothing at all, Reimu."

"Even so, this is quite the fox's wedding you have here. It doesn't look like this is your average fox." [2]

It doesn't seem that Reimu has any information about this either. Perhaps I should devise a way to get her interested in an investigation. I handed a towel over to Reimu and told her to dry her dripping clothes with it.

"Anyhow, it sounds like you had it tough back then."

"What do you mean 'back then'...? I always have it tough, so I don't quite remember."

"It was snowing until just before the rainy season started. Weren't you the one who solved that problem, Reimu?" [3]

"Oh, that? It wasn't a big deal. I've had far worse run-ins, and those weren't even that big either, I guess."

"I'm not sure if that means you are having it tough or not."

"It's the same as always. If anything, things will get tougher if I leave them alone. If spring hadn't arrived, it would be trouble so that problem had to be taken care of. If the mist didn't clear up, it would be trouble so that also had to be... Wait, so that means you're in trouble, right?

"It seems like you understand perfectly. Yes, I'm in trouble."

"You should have said so in the first place! I guess I have no choice. I'll investigate this fox's wedding for you."

Reimu seems to be having fun. However anyone looks at it, it doesn't look like she has it tough. Rather than solving it because I'll be in trouble, she looks nothing else but thrilled at the thought of flying headlong into strange happenings.

"Sorry, but I have some other business I need to take care of. I'm worried as to what I should do about them."

I don't really have any particular things to do. You can clearly see that I'm unoccupied, but this kind of incident is outside my field of knowledge.

"Well, whatever. My clothes are soaking wet anyway, and it won't make a big difference if I go out in the rain again... You should take care of your "business" and stay here. Though I think this kind of minor problem can be squared away in no time."

Upon saying that, Reimu left the shop in high spirits. She took up my request, as expected. But thinking about it very carefully, I realized that Reimu came for no particular reason. Actually, maybe she had every intention of solving this incident all along.

I came to this conclusion from the mostly dry towel I had handed to Reimu. She hadn't used it. It looked like she entered while planning to go right back out again. Or maybe she didn't care whether she was soaking wet or not.

If I leave things to Reimu, after a few hours the crisp summer sunlight will shine down upon the shop, and the shop's interior will once more regain its summer darkness. Once she sets to work, the usual incident will be resolved in two to three hours, up to half a day and at the very most a day. That's the standard.

I wondered if I should make some fresh green tea and read a book. I can leave the rest until later. The pleasant smell of tea makes you forget the passing of time. Though if Reimu were to see me like this while she is working hard, she might become angry...

But even if Reimu didn't seem to know the reason behind this fox's wedding, I think I have an idea. I never thought it would be possible, but... if it is what I think it is, it's an omen. If I wait a short while, things will return to normal, so perhaps this is something that can only be handled by Reimu's emergency procedures. Besides, it would've been dangerous to tell anyone else. I especially couldn't tell Marisa.

Boom! Craaaaack...

It happened in an instant. The shop's interior lit up with a blue-white light so bright that I couldn't even read my book, and then along with the exterior, darkened the next moment. Soon, the rain became heavier, the sky that should have been clear darkened, and the distant scenery became obscured.

I was expecting the strong sunlight of summer, so was honestly shocked by the sudden thunderstorm. To think that there could be thunder while the skies are clear... Although I suppose even in fine weather, it can start raining anyway.

The sudden heavy rain made me worry a little about Reimu, but it was her idle complaints after she solved the matter that really worried me. She'll fix the problem eventually, but clearly I had not predicted the pouring rain. I should probably prepare a change of clothes for her. If anything, her mood is the bigger problem here.

I approached the window and took a look outside to see what the conditions were like, but I couldn't see Reimu at all. The rain just kept getting stronger, like it was trying to drain the color from the world. The outlines of the forest and the mountains gradually began to fade, finally becoming a world of dark grey. The only thing I could hear was the sound of the rain striking the roof.

At that point, I saw a human run past the shop. A figure that, like the current surroundings, possessed no color. It was white and black; a monotone shadow. 

Bam! Clatter, clatter...Bang!

"Hey! What happened!? This is one strange thunderstorm!"

What wasn't strange was Marisa barging in. And her dripping wet isn't strange either.

"You say 'What happened?' and call these common summer evening showers strange?"

"Quit bluffin'. The rain's only fallin' around this shop. And I haven't seen an evenin' shower like this!"

And so we exchanged our casual greetings. It was no use lying to Marisa, so I told her what had happened up until now.

"Alright. I could prob'ly make this drizzle clear up in a flash, but I guess it'd tick Reimu off if I got in her way, so I'll leave it to her."

"For now, why don't you dry yourself off? I mean-"

"If you sit down on merchandise with wet clothes, it'll be a problem. right? I know, I know. But since I flew here, I'm not really that wet."

And with a, "Besides, the rain's only fallin' around your shop anyways," Marisa snatched the towel and started drying herself.

To me she looks considerably drenched. Had the rain extended over a wider area than I thought, or was it that she waited outside the shop before coming in... I can't believe that Marisa would act so docile given the incident before her.

When Marisa decided she had dried off enough, she planted herself on a pot that was for sale.

"So yeah, you've gotta be the reason why this weird thing is happenin' around the shop."

"I really have no idea what you're talking about."

I had an idea. But I couldn't tell Marisa.

It was the rain falling around the shop right now. In Japanese, "rain" has the same pronunciation as "heaven". As the rain is falling solely on the shop, all is under heaven. In other words, this means that a ruling power is present. A little while back, I had tricked... well, negotiated, a sword out of Marisa. That was no average sword. That sword was the "Sword of Kusanagi"; by another name, the Sword of the Heavenly Gathering of Clouds. It holds the power to unite the land... no, even greater than that.

As for this rain, I firmly believe it is an auspicious sign that the heavens had approved of me. I think manipulating the weather is a feat that normal youkai could not accomplish.

"What're you grinnin' about? I've been thinkin' about this rain. Maybe it's the work of the mischievous fairies around here."

"Huh? Y...you think so? Can they make the rain fall that easily?"

"It sure isn't hard. There are always a few youkai who can manipulate the seasons, and they have a small range of effect too. Maybe someone prayed for the rain?"

"So the rain is only falling here... Hmhmhm..."

"Huh? Don't you ignore me."

I feel that I've already unified all under heaven. But I have to make sure Marisa doesn't suspect me of anything. It would be a bad idea to give away the secret of the sword I received from her.

Marisa kept fidgeting and worriedly looking out the window. Seems like something concerned her about the downpour.

"Maybe Reimu will fail, give up and come back?"

"Wow, that's not like you to wish failure upon others."

"What are you talkin' about? I came here just because I was bored. And now that there's somethin' I can do to kill time right in front of me, you want me to just wait around?"

"In that case, should I ask you to investigate this matter, too? I don't mind if you both do it."

"I don't wanna get soakin' wet again."

"Really, you're so selfish, Marisa!"

I'm the one in a pinch, so I'd be grateful if someone could help me investigate, but I couldn't very well shout at her. Both Reimu and Marisa seem to only want to help to kill time anyway.

Flash! Rummmmble...

"Whoa! What's with the lightnin'! That sounded way too close!"

Since the rain is falling only around the shop, then it's a given the lightning is also nearby. However, after that great thunderclap, the rain suddenly ceased.

The sound of the waterfall-like downpour faded and became silent in an instant. I thought at first the loudness of the thunder had damaged my ears, but due to Marisa's constant rambling the shop immediately became noisy again.

"Oh, it stopped rainin'. Looks like she did it, huh?"

"Of course. I was wondering what might have happened to her since this maelstrom started."

"If it were me, I would've solved it more smart-like."

Marisa had calmed down again. Outside, summer had returned with its intense sunlight, and the inside of the shop returned to its seasonal darkness. Not a cloud in the sky could be seen from the window. Looking at it, you could never have guessed that it was raining just a moment ago. I couldn't believe it either.

Knock, knock.

"Whew, it's over. Honestly, since you made me do this kind of job, I hope you at least have some tea ready. And oh, Marisa's here."

"Kourin made you do all this, but he hasn't made any tea at all. Only some for himself."

I started preparing the tea in a hurry, and Marisa said "It's about time, so let's have lunch."

"What, you're trying to say I took too long? Well, I don't mind if you're offering to cook."

"You did take too long. But whatever, I'll handle it. What ingredients did we have again?"

This is my house, you know. Oh well, I guess I'll let it slide this time.

Marisa volunteered on her own, but really, what ingredients were there? Because of the rain, I've been in seclusion for a while, so I doubt there's anything fresh. Well, I'm sure Marisa will manage to make something. She's always bringing ingredients here, so I don't keep much anyway... For now, I gave my thanks to Reimu and handed her a new towel. Reimu immediately started drying her hair, hurrying me by asking "And the tea?"

"All right, be patient, I'm making it now. So, what was the cause behind our strange fox's wedding?"

"Hmm? Oh, well, it was only a rainy season fairy that had started living in your attic. I threatened it a little, and it ran off. I don't really know why the rain got heavier midway though. Maybe someone interfered with it?"

A rainy season fairy?

"A fairy that mischievously lengthens the rainy season. Just like you."

"What are you talking about? I can't make rain fall."

"I'm talking about your name, long rain, right?"

"I wasn't given my name for that particular meaning. So, then what? What was it about that fairy?"

"Since your place is covered in mildew, it got comfortable and settled down. It liked the mildew![2] It'd help if you cleaned out the shop thoroughly once in a while. You never know when something like that might settle in again. Ah, thanks for the tea. Mmm, fresh green tea."

The outside was awash with overly brilliant greenery and dazzling light, not subtle in the least. The rain was now like a magnificent sprinkling, and carried a cool, welcoming wind to the dark interior.

From the back of the shop, I can hear Marisa's voice. It seems that she's managed to prepare something.

"It's hopeless, Kourin. A bunch of yer ingredients are all moldy. You gotta be more careful when it rains for a long time. I didn't have much of a choice, so today it's miso soup with pickled veggies for the main dish. No complaints outta you now."

So it was just mold and mildew... I guess my sovereignty was still a distant dream, I thought while gazing at the sword that decorated the inside of my store. 

The deep red poison of the red spider lilies blocked the way. These grounds were protected by these strange-looking red spider lilies, beautiful and fleeting, as if they were not of this world. I thought that certainly in this place the inside and outside of the border, and even yet another world are mingled like "an impossible intersection of borders". Items that I've never seen might fall in a mysterious place like this.

"This is certainly a mountain of treasure."

When the autumn equinox comes, I always go out for grave visiting. But even so, the place I go to is not a normal cemetery. It is a place where the humans with no relatives in Gensokyo, the nameless dead, go to rest. Yes, I go to the Mound of the Nameless, Muenzuka.

And as for why is there such a place as Muenzuka in Gensokyo, where the number of humans is small; it is an effect of the present balance between youkai and humans. There are no more humans that exterminate youkai completely, and there are hardly any more youkai that attack humans. It would be a problem if the number of either youkai or humans were to increase, and it would be a problem as well if it decreases.

If a corpse is neglected, it will usually end up being eaten by some youkai. And having corpse-eating youkai going around is not sanitary. Disease would spread, which is not good for humans. Plus, humans could become youkai after death. If the number of humans decrease, and the number of youkai increase, the current state of equilibrium will be ruined.

Because of that, as of late not even the remains of the nameless go neglected in Gensokyo. The remains of those are cremated and put to rest here. Thanks to that, you can say that the dead humans of Gensokyo really leave their bodies behind to become ghosts.

Even those dead without relatives are cremated, and their ashes buried here. As for why I am in this place, obviously, it's for mourning those nameless dead. I most certainly am not here to pick up the "unworldly rare" outside items that came in with the nameless dead.

Yes, most of the nameless dead without relatives in Gensokyo are people from the outside. This wall between this place and the Netherworld is thin, and as a consequence of that, this place is also close to the outside world. People, ghosts and even mysterious items fall in here.

"Thanks to the red poison of the red spider lilies, this place is unharmed. It is just like a treasure mountain."

Right from the start I find nothing but interesting items, such as a bottomless ladle and a soul lantern that glows with the light of ghosts. Are those outside world goods, or maybe they are from the Netherworld? I'll say it as much as necessary, I didn't come here to pick up rare items, I came to pray for the nameless deceased. The outside items I am frantically picking up are just a reward for praying for those nameless dead, that's the only reason that I'm collecting them without hesitation.

However, this merry feeling was crushed by an incomprehensible incident.

When counting the number of bones after cremation, somehow the number of bones and the number of bodies before cremation didn't match. And it wasn't like there was one corpse too many. For some reason, only part of a body was in excess. Well, since there weren't any family members to retrieve the bones in the first place, the fact that there were too many wasn't exactly a problem, but still.

"Were there that many nameless dead, Mr. Rinnosuke?"

Without solving this inexplicable puzzle, I went back to my own store, "Kourindou". However, while its owner, myself, was away, the always selfish shrine maiden and the usually selfish magician had selfishly made themselves at home in my shop. That almost always happens.

"Ahh, the nameless deceased were mostly all humans from outside. As you know, Reimu, there are very few unrelated people in Gensokyo. But as there are some people from outside that escape from being youkai food, yet lose their way here, there are always some dead in Muenzuka.

"And what's that junk you're carryin'? Y'always got a lot of weird stuff."

Marisa said that. If anything, she seemed interested in what I had collected.

"These? These are what had fallen in Muenzuka, Marisa."

"Grave robbin', huh?"

"Grave robbing indeed. How awful."

"Grave robbing? These were not offerings. Who in Gensokyo would leave offerings at Muenzuka anyway? Those items were most likely thrown away by some rude folk, and ended up drifting there."

"So what, it's just trash? Nobody'd buy that."

"I'm not selling it. Not right away anyway."

It's just a matter of time for trash to become tools. It's the same as the cycle of death and rebirth.

To end any further discussion, I changed the subject, trying to relate it to that mysterious extra bone from before I was now carrying.

"By the way, Reimu... Has there been any major incident in Gensokyo lately?"

"Well, yes. There was this big incident, but it wasn't anything important."

"As always, you can't seem to know if it was big or not... Well, whatever, it's just that something strange happened."

I tried explaining to the two of them about that bone that was bothering me.

"Huh, what? You wanna eat sushi or somethin'?" [1]

Marisa was saying nonsensical things, so I just let her be.

"Is that true? One bone too many."

"Mm-hmm. Look, here it is."

"Ack, how come you brought back something like that!?"

"It's a right arm bone..., isn't it? At the spring equinox, there was an extra right leg bone."

"Don't tell me you're trying to assemble the right half of a body piece by piece?"

So said Reimu.

"Not at all. And if that was the case, shouldn't I go for an entire body? Why would I have to stop at half of one?"

"In any case, I don't have the least idea. Aren't those dead people mostly from the outside? If something weird is happening, wouldn't it be happening in the outside world?"

"Funny to hear a shrine maiden callin' corpses 'those dead people'."

Marisa was making fun of her.

"That may be, but to think of a corpse entering Gensokyo piece by piece... I'd hope that no one in the outside world is up to no good."

"But this bone... I'm pretty sure it's not human."

Reimu started saying mysterious things again.

"No matter how you look at it, isn't this a human bone? What kind of bone do you think it is?"

"It's just that... there isn't any sign of its soul when it was alive."

"Huh? I never knew ya could see those kinda things, Reimu."

Said Marisa, appearing surprised.

"Why, I am a shrine maiden, am I not?"

The next day, I went to Muenzuka once again. For more prayer, of course.

In the end, I couldn't solve the mystery of the extra bone yesterday. Conversely, the mystery only got deeper by the end of the conversation. I don't bother myself with things I don't understand, I forget them, a special ability that makes life easier, or so I wanted to do

"Humm... Just as expected, but also surprising."

Whoops. Seems that Reimu's way of talking is starting to rub off on me.

And what was just as expected is that today there's an extra bone here again. And what is surprising is that it's a right arm bone, identical to yesterday's. I looked around to see if there was yet another right arm bone.

"Today is the right arm equinox, I guess."

Weird. If this bone is from a human from outside, then there must be a lot of people in the outside world losing only their right arms. But no, there's no way humans could do that. Even if one were to lose an arm in an accident, the connection between the body and the arm wouldn't be severed. Even when separated, the arm would call for the former body, and the body would be under the impression it has an arm. The human soul is lodged in the whole body, regardless of its physical condition.

At this point, I started thinking about how the barrier that surrounded Gensokyo affected things. About how the barrier affected people's "thoughts". If a material wall would be a "wall that keeps the body from passing through", then the barrier would be a "wall that keeps people's thoughts from passing through". Going through the barrier, in other words, to be spirited away, is something that happens when one is in a particular state of mind, where consciousness is hazy, and then your whole self would jump through. For only an arm to jump through the barrier, it would mean the arm and the body have different thoughts. A human whose arm and body move with different wills? I don't think there is such a human, much less a lot of those. So maybe what Reimu said was right, and this is not a human arm.

...But anyway, it's a beautiful bone. You can't see any signs of the daily hardships in it. As big as an adult's, but looks as if it's a baby's. Could a human have grown up so perfectly? Would one raised in a family apart from any discomfort become like this?

While I was thinking of this, I stared at the red spider lily blooming by my feet. Its stem didn't have any leaves. This strange flower doesn't have any leaves on its stem; it grew straight from the ground as a big red flower. Without any leaves, and carrying a lot of poison, this was an appropriate flower for the grounds where the nameless dead rested. The impression I had was that its beauty was one unrelated to anything else. And then there was the body that severed its relation with this clean arm. I imagined a scenery of right arms growing in a row like the red spider lilies and got an unsettling feeling from it.

"So, what going on with the production-model right arms?"

When I returned to my shop, the selfish as always Reimu and the selfish as always Marisa were waiting for me.

"Ahh, here's one."

"Just because there's extra doesn't mean you have to bring them here."

Reimu said, while holding her tea in one hand and biting into a rice cracker.

"Hmmm... There was something worrying me."

I went deeper inside the store and compared the bone I had found yesterday with the one I just picked up.

"What's worrying you? Ahh, I didn't get this rice cracker from that shelf, I got it from the ones left on this one."

That's not what I was worried about. The rice cracker I left on the shelf close to Reimu weren't the expensive ones. Reimu had the habit of not choosing and going straight for the best stuff I had in the store. So, the rice cracker Reimu was eating

"...no, wait. That's not what I'm worried about! It's about the bones."

When I said that, Marisa put her book aside, looking a little upset.

"Alright, enough of that. If ya wanna eat it that bad, I'll cook today."

Marisa surprisingly declared, and went into the kitchen.

Well, I don't know what she's so unhappy about, but knowing Marisa, it must be something simple. She did say she was going to prepare the food, so she shouldn't be that upset
 Anyway, we were talking about the bones.

"So? What's worrying you about the bones, Mr. Rinnosuke?"

"Ah, it's just that the right arm that I picked up yesterday and the one I picked up today, if you look closely... they are the same in every detail. Even bones from twins wouldn't be like this. It looks like they just were duplicated."

"And so, what's bothering you?"

"Don't you get it? Simply put, this right arm and that right arm are from the same individual... I think."

"Really? How mysterious. But might be normal."

"How's that senseless answer going to help?"

Reimu looked like she was giving up as she put her tea down.

"Didn't you say these were from the outside world? Whatever happens in the outside world is out of my control. Besides, I have no idea of what happens outside. These arms might as well come from a human with six arms."

"Even if it was from a human with six arms, it's unnatural for only the arm to cross the border. The border is your area of expertise, isn't it? I thought you would understand that for only part of a body to cross over the border, it's a sign of a youkai. The border is not just a wall, you know."

"Really? That's very interesting."

"Yes, really. Wait. Are you sure you are a shrine maiden?"

"Someone I know is able to go through the border with just parts of her body with no problems... but, of course, she wasn't human herself."

"That's what I'm telling you. This human arm couldn't possibly do that. What did they call this again? An OOPArts?"

That's wrong!, was the rebuttal I heard from Marisa. No, she was in the kitchen, preparing the meal, so maybe it was just my impression.

"This arm even looks artificial. And it doesn't show any traces of a soul having lived in it... I certainly don't think it was moving around and having a normal life."

Reimu put down her rice cracker, and took the bone for the first time. She was again with the tea in one hand, so she just exchanged the cracker for the bone. She looked so absent-minded that it seemed like she could bite the bone by mistake.

"It doesn't have any human sentiment in it, right? That's how it could come through the border. It's treated the same as the other items that occasionally drift into here. But it was clearly a living thing, so if I had to guess, I imagine it was a bodiless human who only consisted of a right arm. My 'eyes' are telling me that it's definitely a human, too. So, theorizing based on that"

I stopped mid-sentence, as I had begun to imagine some place like a factory or laboratory, where identical human arms were produced like they were tools. I chided myself for having imagined something so grossly insulting to life itself. I'd rather not think that humans would do something so foolish.

"I just hope that the humans in the outside world are not doing foolish things..."

Was what I said.

"But, don't you make a living out of tools that come drifting in here once in a while? And aren't you always mumbling about the progress of the outside world?"

"The body of a living thing... it's not a tool. This store doesn't deal in that."

For a while, nobody spoke a word, so it was pretty quiet. Reimu was making munching sounds like she was biting into something. I was pretty sure she still had the bone in hand, so I looked at her with a shock, but it was the rice cracker. Well, that was obvious. Speaking of which, it's almost dinner time already, so is it alright for her to be eating?

"It's done. Today's Chirashizushi, just as you wanted."

Marisa cheerfully came back from the kitchen.

"Chirashi sushi? Awfully extravagant, isn't it? So that was why it took so much time
 what? 'Just as I wanted'?"

Marisa had a look on her face like she was making fun of someone.

"What, haven't ya been babblin' 'bout it since yesterday? 'Bout how much ya wanted to eat sushi?"

So she said.

"You really did say that..."

Reimu said while biting her cracker.

"Even you, Reimu... Did I say that?"

"It took s' long'cuz I couldn't find a fan to cool down the shari [sushi rice]. I had to fan it with this hat till I 'bout dropped dead because it made almost no wind."

Ahh, I see. So that's why Marisa was saying "Sushi! Sushi!" a while ago... That's just like her.

"What is it? If ya don't eat it soon, my chirashi sushi'll go cold."

"And weren't you working hard to cool it down?"

Reimu quietly put the half-eaten cracker back on its shelf while she spoke.

"Sushi, huh? That joke was in bad taste, Marisa."

"Hmph. I don't wanna be told that by some guy that shows up in front of us with someone's shari [bone relics] in his hands. Got it? After people die, they become ghosts. Bones are just empty shells. If ya got a problem, go ask the ghosts about it and that'll be that. If ya want shari, the sushi rice is enough.

"I see. But, because I brought these bones, I got an unexpected banquet today. I wonder if this is for my good deed of going to mourn at Muenzuka, as well."

"Pretty bold for a grave-robber, ain't ya?"

"My, this is delicious. But you should go wash your hands before you eat, Mr. Rinnosuke. You might have some red spider lily poison on them."

"You're right. But, you touched the bone too, didn't you, Reimu? Did you wash your hands?"

"Of course I did."

"But weren't you here the whole time?"

"Marisa, could you get me some more tea?"

"What, again? Didn't you drink it?"

Thanks to the sushi Marisa made, the shop regained its usual lively atmosphere. Well, more like a noisy one. And just as always, I could use my special skill to "completely" stop thinking about that bone. Maybe from tomorrow on, the red spider lily wouldn't look like a strange flower, but a beautiful one. That was what I was thinking as I washed the poison off my hands in the kitchen. 

There was an ear-shattering clamor like nothing I've ever heard before.

Even though it was almost winter, the air was unpleasantly warm.

Even with my eyes closed, a flood of light pushed through.

Horrified, I couldn't open my eyes.

The rich, colorful outdoor scenery was being blown away along with the falling red leaves, and the winter colors were gradually setting in...

The tree leaves, now red, that symbolize life are little by little becoming warped, but as far as human comprehension goes, it only means they are turning red. For most of these leaves, they won't be able to endure their own transformation and will fall to the ground, but there are some that will become completely warped. Those leaves will transcend red, into a color that the human eyes can't see. The inhabitants of Gensokyo call this color after the leaves have fallen "the winter color". Humans then say that the scenery has lost its colors, but it's possible that amongst the youkai there are some that can see these winter colors.

The interior of the shop is also painted in the colors of winter, but it's not so bad compared to the outside. And that is thanks to human ingenuity.

I had readied one such product of human ingenuity, namely, a "heater." However...

Knock, knock.

"Damn, it's freezin' outside! It's so cold ya can't even hibernate! ...Hey, s'cold in here, too. What happened to that heater ya always have?"

"Ah, Marisa? Well, I ran out of fuel for the heater."

"Huh? Fuel?"

The heater I use was a discovery from the outside world, and its fuel is also of the outside world. That means that once I run out of fuel, it's rather difficult to obtain more. I've always used the fuel that was in it when I found it, the fuel from other items I've gathered, or some other, similar liquid.

"Don't matter how cold it is, what happened to properly greetin' visitors?"

"I always greet customers, no matter how cold it is."

"Ahh, if I'dda known your shop'd be like this, I wudda brought the Mini-Hakkero. Anyway, what'cha gonna do about the fuel?"

Marisa is weak against cold. The intense winter cold reduces her "sharpness" to one third its usual level.

"For some reason, almost no heaters appeared this year. That's why I couldn't get any fuel."

"Maybe tha outside world's winter isn't cold anymore. Lucky devils!"

"I doubt there is any way their winters would be warm."

"So what, then? Do ya plan to just freeze to death like this?"

"I think 'hibernation' would be more appropriate. But I don't plan on doing either. However, it seems I've no other choice. I will find some way to obtain fuel before I truly become frozen."

It's not like there aren't other ways to get fuel. Like going to the outside world, or getting it from some youkai. Realistically, it would be the second choice, but... that involves dealing with youkai...

"Want me to clue you in on somethin', Kourin? There's someone besides you with a whole bunch of stuff from the outside world. And I just so happen to be an acquaintance o' hers. Just the other day, she was saying 'One can speak with someone from far away if they are using this item.' while using it to talk to her own shikigami... I was kinda suspicious about it being for real though. But I bet someone like her would at least have some fuel."

"Is she a youkai?"

"Of course, she's a youkai."

Knock, knock, knock.

"Aaah, so cold, so cold! It seems it got all cold all of a sudden."

"Ah, Reimu? Welcome."

About now, people everywhere are making preparations for the winter season. Reimu too has certainly come to pick up some winter clothes. That's why I'm treating her as a customer today.

"Hey, it's cold in here too! What happened to that over-heating heater you always had?"

"Looks like it went for a long summer vacation to me."

"Huh? You're here too, Marisa?"

"Yeah, right in front o' ya."

Marisa explained to Reimu for me about me running out of fuel and how I could obtain some. Looks like Marisa really is weak against cold.

"This youkai you're talking about... It's Yukari, right?"

"Yup, she's closest to the outside world. I bet that you'd know where to find her."

"No, I don't. I don't even know where she lives. She just comes to the shrine when I don't want her to, and of course, sometimes she doesn't come when I don't want her to."

"...So, you never want her to come."

"Anyway, Yukari won't be showing up for a while."

"Taking a wild guess?"

"It's not like drawing 'Great Fortune' from the omikuji. Yukari never shows up in the winter."[1]

The verbal duel between Reimu and Marisa-which I could never know if it was for real or not-continued. Of course, I never actually said I was going to ask anything of this youkai. It's just that, if I were to stay without the fuel like this, I'd really be in trouble.

"Come to think of it, if you scatter some fried tofu, she will certainly come visit. Yukari's servant, that is."[2]

The next day, I tried putting some fried tofu on the storefront. I didn't have any particular expectation; I just did it as a sort of charm.

The temperature has naturally dropped some more today. Seems it really is becoming winter. It's very inconvenient not being able to use my heater as I always have, but it cannot be helped. Maybe I'll have to think of another way of warming myself up.

I got this heater a few years ago. At first, I was considering putting it up for sale, but I changed my mind after trying to use it. I couldn't possibly sell a tool so convenient. I mean, hard to use.

It could warm up every nook and cranny of the room, and it wouldn't even feel like it was winter. And I didn't have to bother with firewood or dirty chimneys, nor did I need a big installation like a fireplace. I even ended up not getting enough exercise because I didn't have to move around that much. I soon started to think that it would be a shame to sell this item, or rather, like I couldn't sell it.

However, it has been a long time since I really felt the winter. It's cold. Have Gensokyo's winters really been so cold...? Should I try digging up the magical heating furnace I made long ago...? Wait, I gave that to Marisa.

A knocking sound came from the shop's entrance. Did it trap someone already?

It hasn't been more than one or two hours since I put the fried tofu there. It must be someone that really likes fried tofu, to get caught so quickly.

...But there was no one inside.

"Ah, do you have a moment? I have some business for your master..."

I opened the door, but no one was there. And my fried tofu was gone without a trace too. Someone had certainly been there, but I didn't think it would be someone so quick to disappear like that. Could it have been the work of a fox...?

It seems I was wrong to think I could get what I wanted without making an effort myself. Just preparing some fried tofu and putting it out is about the same amount of effort as doing nothing.

"Well, this way is a little cold... But if I do it like this, there's no way my prey can escape the trap."

"...So, how long have ya been standing in front of yer shop holding fried tofu? That's not the kind of effort y'have to make."

"Ah, Marisa. You were there?"

"Yup, right in front of you."

"Oh, would you help me by luring in the youkai in my place?"

"And why'd anyone have to do something so stupid?"

"I'm not an expert in luring youkai, you see. I just don't know how to do it..."

Marisa said, "Fine, fine... let's just go inside for now." and entered the shop.

Since I had the fried tofu in hand anyway, I left it by the entrance and went in after Marisa.

"Not even a dumb fox youkai would fall for that kinda trap."

"Even so, a while ago it looked like it caught something."

"Whatever. If you can't use your heater, how can I come hang out at your place? I'll go and search for Yukari."

"Do you really think you can find her?"

"Even though Reimu said what she did yesterday, I've seen Yukari at the shrine sometimes. She's gotta live around there, I'm sure."

Marisa went out to search for Yukari in my place.

Do I... really want to meet this youkai? Even without the heater, I can find another way to warm up. After all, everyone else in Gensokyo is able to survive the weather without this useful device. And besides, even if I meet this youkai, there's no guarantee that she can supply me with the fuel.

Didn't I just want to know more about the outside world? By using an item connected to the outside world and by being interested in a youkai connected to it, couldn't it be that I just want to get some more information?

I do deal with a lot of mysterious merchandise. And, being surrounded by all these items, I am always wondering about the outside world.

For instance, there's this box, much smaller than a music box, and made of a white, inorganic material. My ability tells me that this box is an item that can store and play a lot of music. However, until now, it has never played any music for me. Just how do they use it in the outside world, and what kind of sounds does it play...?

I took the small, white metallic box, put it to my ear and closed my eyes. Maybe I could hear some sounds from the outside.

I got the impression that there was a conversation coming from outside. Maybe Marisa had already came back, or else a youkai had come by, lured by the fried tofu... No, I don't think that's it.

There was an ear-shattering clamor like nothing I'd ever heard before. I couldn't believe such a painful sound could be made by any living creature.

I felt an unpleasant warm air all over my skin. It was as if the ambient temperature had changed all of a sudden. In a winter like this, I don't think I would need heating.

Even with my eyes closed, a flood of light pushed through. What could be shining so brightly to do that? It's a cold brightness, unlike sunlight or magic light.

Then I had a flash of intuition. Right now... I must be in the outside world. Riding on the outside items surrounding me, my thoughts had flown across the barrier.

But... I didn't open my eyes. What if, after seeing the outside world, I couldn't return to Gensokyo anymore? Humans that are spirited away almost never have a chance to come back again. On the other hand, if I open my eyes believing this to be only a visual and auditory illusion, my thoughts wouldn't cross the border and would be back to Gensokyo, but I could miss my chance to see the outside world. Which choice would I prefer?

That's right, wasn't my goal to obtain fuel? I did have a clear objective. I didn't want to get lost in the outside world, only to visit it to complete my task. I had to leave my thoughts at Kourindou-no, at Gensokyo-and let only my body cross over there. Yes, that's a feat humans couldn't pull off... but I'm sure I could.

For the sake of getting fuel for making my shop warm again, I slowly opened my eyes.

Hakurei Shrine. The shrine at the very edge of Gensokyo.

Marisa went there to look for Yukari. When leaving Kourindou, she noticed the fried tofu still in front of the shop and decided to take it with her, so it could be put to a more effective use.

"Heeey! Are ya here?"

"Hmm? I am, right in front of you."

"Not you, Reimu. I mean Yukari."

"What happened? And why are you holding that fried tofu?"

"You were the one who said she'd show up for fried tofu."

"Well, her shikigami is a fox."

"Exactly, and since Kourin obviously has no idea how to catch a youkai, I had no choice but to come here so you could catch one for me."

"Oh, I see... Rather selfish of you, isn't it? Anyway, how about we have tea while we talk?"

Marisa and Reimu drank tea while they argued about how to catch Yukari.

"Hm, Yukari... Maybe she's already hibernating?"

"When ya say 'hibernate', that just means she never shows up anywhere, right? And we don't have a clue where she lives. What if she's actually gone vacationin' in the southern islands?"

"That may be. By the way... Where are those southern islands?"

"We don't hafta go that far. But there really isn't any way to call her?"

"I guess there's only one other way. But if I do that, she'll get angry..."

"So there is a way?"

"Well, there is... But if I do it, she'll show up only to tell me that it's dangerous and I should stop."

"But she'll show up, and that's all that matters, right?"

To these girls, words like "dangerous" are hardly a deterrent.

"But it means weakening Gensokyo's border. What if the ones who are close to the outside world get sucked into it?"

There was a flood of light. It was a very bright, cold light. It was so bright I could hardly see. And there were some voices speaking in what didn't seem to be Japanese. The hot, foul air was making my head hurt. So this is the outside world... I had seen it in things like books that drifted in, but I never imagined it would be so noisy and unpleasant.

I had to calm down and look for some fuel, and then I should calmly look for a way to go back to Gensokyo.

...My eyes were becoming accustomed to the light. This archway here was something I recognized... Is this a shrine? And there are a great number of people here too...

"Oh, this will not do! You ended up all the way here... You shouldn't come here, because you are not human, you see?"

"!?"

The cacophony suddenly stopped. The light also went away, and I had the white box in my hand again. The surroundings were gloomy, but somehow I could see... it was the usual interior of Kourindou.

It looked like I had just fallen asleep for a little while. Since it was so dim, I lit a small lamp and put the white box back on the shelf.

If I just keep falling asleep like this, there was no way I could achieve my goal. I was curious if the fried tofu in front of the store had lured any youkai, so I opened the front door. Unfortunately, all that had happened was that the fried tofu had been taken.

"Then it was a fox's doing, after all?"

I could see the shapes of Marisa and Reimu in the distance. And of yet another girl, who seemed to be lecturing them as they walked. Quite an unusual scene.

"Why, nice to meet you. Please call me Yukari Yakumo. Are you the person who wanted to meet me?"

The youkai in front of me, wearing gaudy clothes and carrying a gaudy parasol, had the sharp eyes characteristic of someone who isn't human. And she had an ominous smile.

"Ahh, greetings. I was just wanting to meet you for a bit of a business proposal."

I guided Yukari inside the shop and explained the circumstances that had led to me calling her, like the fuel for the heater.

"Is it electric? Or kerosene? Or maybe even nitroglycerin? Well, whatever the case, it's a simple request. I have an unending supply of any of those... and we should help each other in times of need, after all."

She wore a wide smile. I knew it was definitely ominous.

"As expected from a youkai."

"As expected from me."

Having said that, Yukari started to walk around the store, her long skirt fluttering silently.

"This shop of yours... It only has articles that are quite out of fashion. The latest trend, you see, is in portable objects. Portable things to speak with people far away, or portable devices that display the records of other people on a small screen..."

"We don't particularly care about fashion here. I just deal with items that I like."

"Ah, this white box... This is a fashionable item."

"Oh, that... That is supposed to carry a lot of music, but I have yet to understand how to use it."

I have the ability to know the name and the use of an unknown item just by looking at something. However, this ability doesn't tell me how to use it.

"If you put this to your ear, you will have odd visions like the ones you had earlier. That's because you are not a human."

Again, the wide, ominous smile.

"Hey, turn that heater on already! It's freezing."

"Aren't you a little impatient, Marisa? I have barely begun to speak to the lady."

"Oh, I already turned it on. See, it's full of fuel, is it not?"

Indeed, it was now completely filled.

"When did... But I was here the whole time. How in the world did you do that?"

"We should help each other in times of need."

With that, Yukari stuffed the white box she was holding into her clothes. I was quickly regretting having met this youkai girl. 

"This thing... What were the people in the outside world thinking when they made it?"

I still remember feeling chills when I put it away on a shelf deep inside the store.

Let's put it like this: I am Rinnosuke Morichika, a merchant through and through. And this is my antique store, "Kourindou" where I keep all sorts of items, most of them curiosities. I gather these items from the outside world to sell them, and I always keep my door open to customers.

But then, there are those that are not customers but still come here and treat me like I am a fake merchant. "It's not like you're really interested in selling any of these things, right?" they say. And I am indeed not interested in selling anything to non-customers.

There are, in fact, a few items kept deep inside the store that I'm not interested in selling. Some items are not for sale because I am personally interested in them. It's true that some of these are bothersome things that would only take up space in the shop. However, I consider all of them to have value, but more so than my common wares. It just so happens that no one willing to pay a price corresponding to their worth has appeared.

But among them there is an item that's lately been bothering me terribly. And it's worse than usual, because I can't really ask anyone's advice regarding this item. It's a grey box, small enough to be held in the hands, made of... plastic, I believe it was called? As I was saying, it's a box made from a material neither metal nor stone. Items made of this material have been extremely numerous lately. On top of that, this one has several differently-shaped buttons and switches on it. However, even if I push them, nothing happens.

Insofar there's nothing particularly ominous about it. However, this item's "utility" is very unsettling. Yes, my ability permits me to "determine an item's utility". That's why I am the only one that gets this uneasy feeling. And it's this feeling that prevents me from selling this item.

Knock, knock.

"It's freezin' out there, Kourin! And it's even worse in the forest."

"Is that you, Marisa? If you are coming in, wipe the snow from yourself before you do."

"Yeah, I'm doin' that now."

I put the ominous little box deep inside a shelf to hide it, and went over to the entrance.

"It's too late to start now. Aren't you already inside the store?"

"I'm not even a customer, so it's not that bad, right?"

"No, it's doubly bad. I'd like to know what you are going to do if you get my merchandise wet."

"Butcha aren't going to sell any of it, are ya? The whole shop is full of nothing but stuff that isn't for sale. It doesn't look like ya want to part with any of it."

"Even if it's not for sale, it'll be bad if it gets wet. Anyway, hurry up and go wipe yourself outside."

Marisa reluctantly went outside. There was a lot of snow piled up on her hat. Was it really snowing that much...? Since I haven't been outside at all, I didn't even notice that it was snowing.

That's fine, though. During the harsh winter, I can wait for it to end staying close to my heater, a result of human ingenuity.

"I'm back. It's cold outside, but the sun came out so it's real pretty."

"It stopped snowing, then?"

"Huh? 'Twasn't even snowin' to begin with."

"What about the snow piled up on your hat?"

"Ah, it landed on me when I went under some tree in the forest. I wonder if it was some fairy's idea of a prank. Makin' the tree shake when someone walks under it so the snow falls on 'im. My head did feel a little heavier 'cause o' that, but whatever..."

I was curious as to why didn't she wipe it off at that time. But since she would surely say something like "I was exercisin' my neck.", I didn't bother asking.

"Get anythin' interestin' lately?"

I was about to say, "Oh, that's right, just a while ago...," but I held my tongue.

That item I got a while ago would be that creepy box. As to why I had a bad feeling about it, it was because of for what it's used to do.

What that item does is that it can apparently control just about anything. For example, manipulating people, making them fight, starting wars and, depending on the circumstances, even destroying the world. It's just as if it were a god's tool. But by looking at it, it doesn't seem like anything that powerful, or at least that was what my eyes told me.

While it only took me a short while to ascertain that, since I don't know how to use it, I wasn't even able to get it to make an insect move. So I gave up and let it rest deep inside the store, as one of my not-for-sale items.

"A while ago what?"

"A while ago... I had this strange dream. I could feel an unpleasant air. And there was this ear-splitting noise and an incredibly dazzling light. I had never seen anything like it before, but for some reason, my memories are..." Better to talk nothing more of that small box.

"What does that got to do with anythin'? Like I care what you dream about!"

Knock, knock.

"Aah, Mr. Rinnosuke! This shop of yours... It's dangerous."

"What do you mean by 'dangerous', Reimu? You won't find a shop more modest than this one."

It turned out Marisa only came here yesterday because she was free and wanted to kill some time. But maybe she couldn't stand doing nothing for long, because soon she went somewhere else. Just like a dog frolicking around in the snow.

Today's visiting customer (wait, she's not actually a customer) is Reimu. Maybe it's because only non-customers ever come here that this shop is so modest.

"It's not a modest shop, it's simply one where there's no intention of selling any of its items, isn't it? But anyway, don't you ever go outside, Mr. Rinnosuke? Since you are always using heating, the snow on the roof melts and forms a lot of icicles, you know that? If one of those were to fall on someone it would hurt a lot."

"It'll be fine. Maybe a prankster fairy will use them to drive away weird people coming to the store."

"A fairy that drops icicles? I don't think that's a fairy from the forest."

"Well, whatever. Just take them down on your way out. You can do that much, right?"

"Fine by me. But that's not why I came today. I was asked to give you a message."

"A message?"

"'In a short while, I'll be coming to take the usual.' Just what is the usual?"

"...What you mean by the usual? And just whose message is that?"

"It's from Yukari, of course."

When I imagined Yukari saying this, an unpleasant look appeared on my face. It's true that I am in her debt, but that youkai girl's smile is terribly ominous.

"Wasn't she still hibernating?"

"That's exactly why she sent a message."

That's right, that youkai girl would certainly know something about that small box. However... She is the last person I would want to hand it over to. To date, she has never returned any of the items she arbitrarily took from me. And for some reason, she gives me the chills.

"I have no idea what 'the usual' is."

"Anyway, I've delivered the message. Now I have to go out and do some shopping."

Reimu said that and promptly left. When you come to my shop and then leave saying that you 'have to do some shopping', what am I supposed to think? Looks like she is suggesting that I have nothing worth buying here. No, it's more like she is saying it out loud... I once again took out that small grey box. I imagine this is likely the thing Yukari mentioned. I picked it up by coincidence, so maybe it really is Yukari's?

The outside items that fall into Gensokyo include items that came through the barrier by accident, items that became 'illusionary' because no one used them anymore, items whose users had suddenly disappeared, and so on. So, if this box really is a god's tool, then it means that the gods have, very likely, disappeared from the outside world.

If this item really can control anything, then Gensokyo can easily be put in a dangerous situation. Especially if I hand it over to that youkai girl, I can't even imagine what might happen.

No normal person would seriously believe that such a mysterious item like this exists. But in my case, I can't not believe it, given what I know.

Of all the items from the outside world I have gathered until now, there are some that no one in Gensokyo would believe it possible to create. So it may very well be an item capable of destroying the world. I don't want to loose into Gensokyo such a powerful tool from the outside capable of wreaking such havoc if I can avoid it. For now, the small grey box shows no sign of working, but who knows when it may release its god-like power? If this ability is set into motion, people might start being controlled, be made to fight, might start wars, and the world might very well be destroyed.

I love Gensokyo as it is. That's why I can't possibly give this box away to anyone.

I should break an item as dangerous as this. I should break it with a mallet.

With slight reluctance towards destroying this little grey box, I hit it with all my might.

The next day, I was preparing to go out for the first time in quite a while. I had business that required me to do so.

I had in fact swung a big mallet on that small box yesterday. But it, how can I say it... had a strange outcome. It felt like striking a soft pillow. Surprised, I looked at the end of the mallet...

That was a scene I would rather not recall. There, between the mallet and the small box I was supposed to break, was a white hand that had snuck in between them! Yes, a creature made of only one hand had stopped the mallet. I had struck down as hard as I could, but this (slender, female) hand was calmly interposing. The hand brushed the mallet aside, raised the index finger and, in front of my eyes, waved it left and right. And then, just as if ridiculing me standing there dumbfounded, the hand grabbed the small box and disappeared into the floor along with it.

At that time, I had no idea of what had just happened, and just stood in blank amazement for a while. But once I could think calmly about it, I realized there wasn't anything mysterious about it. Of everyone that I knew, there was only one that could do this. That's right. It was that girl who took it. The last one I wanted to give it to.

I still don't know where she lives. But for now, I'm just getting some fried tofu ready.

"Preparin' fried tofu... Gonna stand in front of the shop holdin' it again?"[1]

"Marisa? When did you come inside?" Marisa had suddenly appeared behind me.

"You seemed to be in a hurry, running all over the place, so I just entered and kept quiet. No particular reason."

That's right, if I can get Marisa to go searching for me instead of going after her myself, it would be many times more effective.

"Marisa, I have a favor to ask..."

"Go look for Yukari, right? Yeah, sure. Why not?"

"!? How did you know that I wanted you to look for Yukari?"

"The fried tofu."

Marisa gladly accepted, and went out again almost as soon as she had arrived. In this case... Since it's so cold, I'd rather not go out myself.

I tried to calm down and think. Just what was that small box? My ability showed me its frightening use, but you wouldn't think an item that small could have that power. But if Yukari took it when I was about to break it, then it couldn't have been just another trinket...

It had black, cheap-looking buttons, and some small openings on its back and sides. But its most characteristic feature was the small window just above some buttons, that would neither open nor shut. If you stared for too long at that window, you would almost feel like you could get sucked into it. It was made of a strange artificial material.

However, from its weight, it didn't seem like there was a lot packed inside it. Rather than danger, what I felt from it was more like an eerie and somewhat lonely feeling. If I had a better sense of intuition, like Reimu, maybe I could've sensed something more. Maybe even something like the feelings of the one who used this.

...Why is it that, now that I don't have it anymore, I remember its details much more clearly? Did my eyes get clouded by all the illusionary visions that my ability showed them? From now on, I should start looking at things without relying only on my ability...

...knock, knock

I noticed the sound of the front door opening. I must have fallen asleep while I was thinking.

"Whaddya doin'? You send me out lookin' for someone and then go take a trip to dreamland?"

"Ah, Marisa... Was I sleeping?"

"She was at the shrine, that Yukari. Drinkin' tea and relaxin'. Guess she forgot about hibernation."

"So... What did she do?"

"Asked me to deliver a message."

"Another message? And what it is?"

"Ah, she said 'Yes, I have received this month's fee.'"

What? So that was for payment? And a monthly one at that? Does she intend to come collecting things every month now? Looks like I walked into a deal with a very troublesome youkai.

"And then she said 'Didn't I inform you before that portable things are popular in the outside world now? That's why this kind of item is appearing a lot. This one is a handheld game machine. You can use it to fight and destroy imaginary enemies, wherever and whenever you are. But unfortunately, this grey one is a rather old variety. It's only monochromatic... and since it's so old, almost nobody in the outside world has one anymore. You know, the popular one right now is one that has two screens.' What's she talkin' about?"

"I see now. That's a relief to hear."

What kind of "handheld game machine" is it that's popular in the outside world now? When that small box with the two screens that Yukari mentioned goes out of fashion, maybe it'll start appearing in Gensokyo as well.

And the icicles on the roof actually fell. I guess a strange person came by so the prankster fairy drove them away? 

...It's cold. A chill not of this world has settled within the walls of my store.

I have a heater placed at the center. It's an essential item for getting through Gensokyo's harsh winter. It was dangerously close to becoming no more than a mere decoration this year, but I got it working again somehow.

...But it's still cold. And when I say cold, I mean the entire shop is freezing.

This heater is from the outside world and it usually gives off an unbelievable heat, bathing the room in the glow of the outside world's flame. There's no way it should be this cold. Normally.

But... it's cold. And that is naturally because the shop has been full of phantoms since this morning. The temperature of phantoms is extremely low, you see. My store was engulfed in that otherworldly and ghostly light. This light would reflect off of the snow through the window and give a phantasmal mood to the whole place, as if contrasting to the very real light from the heater.

Unfortunately, I don't have any ability that would allow me to hear the voices of phantoms. As much as I want, I can't find out what these countless phantoms' purpose is. It's just not my specialty.

...But if it stays this cold, I don't think I'll be able to get through the winter. So, even though it might be somewhat of an extreme measure, maybe I should ask a specialist to perform a phantom extermination. As for why I think it's an extreme measure, I don't sense any ill will from these phantoms.

Since going all the way to the shrine is a nuisance, I tried to communicate with a bored-looking phantom in the shop by telling it to go to the shrine and call the shrine maiden. Well, I guess it was a silly idea, considering that I wanted it to call Reimu here so she can exterminate them.

However, said bored phantom happily replied (and by that, I mean it moved its head part up and down) and flew off. It seems they can hear my voice at least. Honestly, these phantoms are very nice and cheerful types. If they weren't so cold, that would be even better.

A phantom's chill can actually be helpful, mainly in summer. During hot summer nights, humans would gladly look for phantoms in order to cool themselves, in what are called "tests of courage". That's the reason why they are more commonly done in summer.

All living things have their own living temperatures. Humans and youkai are the same in this aspect. On the other hand, objects always assume the temperature of their surroundings. But phantoms are cold, unlike both living things and objects. Maybe that is how phantoms assert themselves.

Ding-a-ling.

"What happened that would make you call for help like that, Mr. Rinnosuke?"

Reimu has arrived. It seems that phantom accomplished its task.

"What do you mean? I thought you would be able to tell just by looking at the situation. I wanted you to exterminate 
 or rather, drive away 
 all these phantoms."

"Phantoms? Well, there has been a lot of them lately. The shrine is full of phantoms, too. They're such a bother..."

Was she trying to imply something like "I can't exterminate phantoms myself?"

"It gets cold here with all of them around."

"Well, that's because they're phantoms, after all. But before driving them away, maybe you should figure out why they gathered here in the first place?"

"...But it's cold. I'd rather investigate after the room gets a little warmer."

"Is that how it is? I doubt you'll find a way to get rid of them if you don't get to the root of the problem."

As Reimu spoke, she prepared some amulets. Phantom-warding talismans, perhaps?

"I'll put up some amulets, just to give you peace of mind."

"Thank you. But taking such an indirect approach isn't like you. Do you dislike dealing with phantoms?"

"What I do is youkai extermination. And phantoms are not youkai."

Reimu just stuck some amulets around the shop and went back. And in fact, it did seem like the phantoms couldn't get close to them. However, the range of the amulets was far too small. The shop's interior was just as full of phantoms as before. They were almost useless spread out like that, so I rearranged some of the amulets closer to me, my bed, and the more valuable merchandise.

Looking closely, some of the phantoms were crowded around the heater, looking as if they were cold. "Whose fault do you think this cold is?", I wanted to say, but it seemed that even phantoms who are cold don't necessarily like being cold.

And that's a matter of course. Most phantoms were originally human. And so a phantom's tastes and character shouldn't really change much from when it was alive. Upon closer observation, I could see some curiously looking around the store, some that wouldn't move away from the heater, some that were chatting with their fellows (or so they seemed), and a few other types.

They certainly have different ways of thinking. But then again, why were all these different phantoms gathering at my place all of a sudden? Did they all decide to do so as a group? If I could only hear their voices, it would be a lot easier.

When you think of hearing the voices of the deceased, an itako medium is what profession comes to mind. The thing is, most people misunderstand a medium's ability. They don't actually listen to the deceased voices. They let their unconscious be possessed by the person they were asked to summon, and then transmit it in the form of words. That's why mediums can't hear the voice of anyone that is not closely related to the client. And if said client is not in front of the medium, they won't even become possessed.

If a medium were to successfully contact a deceased soul that is neither family nor lover to the client, then it's most certainly a trick. On the other hand, if it is family or lover then she can perform it even if the person is not dead.

You may think that shrine maidens have the same ability as itako mediums, but they differ a little. A shrine maiden can give a mouth to a god's words. And, as there is a god to every thing, you could even hear an object's voice through that. But then again, since this communication only goes one way, it would be a, so to speak, god's monologue.

It's quiet outside. Snowing, probably. It might just be that those phantoms were in the middle of a journey, and stopped here because it was snowing outside.

Reimu only stuck her amulets around the shop, without doing any active extermination. Phantoms must truly be different from youkai. There's no real reason to exterminate phantoms, unlike youkai.

As for me, I just went to sleep, leaving the heater on. Even the phantoms would be cold. Well... at least I would be.

Bam! Bam! Bam!

Daybreak. The sun has barely risen, but someone is banging on my door.

The snowing has stopped. The light from the snow and the freezing air enveloped all of Gensokyo in white.

Bam! Bam! Bam!

"Excuse me! I would like to check your shop for something!"

Bam-bam-bam...flomp.

Ahh, the knocks on the door were making the whole shop vibrate... It was snowing all last night, and since I left the heater on, the snow on the roof must have loosened.

"There's still some time until I open the shop. Just what is your business here?"

However, when I opened the door, there wasn't anyone there.

No, there is actually a pile of snow just in front of the door. And protruding from this pile are two swords and a leg.

Customers won't be able to enter like this. I'll need to shovel away all this snow later... or not. It seems this snow pile in front of me is actually a "visitor."

Just where did I put my snow shovel...? No, wait. There seems to be something soft within the pile, so it might be dangerous to push a shovel into it.

"Ooooh..."

I could hear a voice coming from the lump of snow.

"You can get out by yourself, I guess. But just what is it that you want? It's still too early in the morning; I haven't opened the store yet."

"I-I can't move... Can't you at least help remove a little of this snow?"

"If you can at least hear my voice, then you can state your business, for starters. I can help you after that, all right?"

"Oooooh... Ohhhh..."

I removed some of the snow from around where I heard the voice. And there appeared the head of a silly-looking girl, the first one to ever bear the brunt of the rooftop snow's counterattack.

"Brr, it's cold... I can't move my arms and legs! Please move away the rest of the snow!"

"You moved around too much, which caused the snow to melt and freeze again. That's why you're stuck."

"That doesn't matter..."

"So, what is your business here?"

"Boo-hoo There's something I want to investigate in your shop, and it's urgent. That's why I came all this way..."

"Something you want to investigate? Could it have something to do with the phantoms?"

"Yes, it does."

"Why didn't you say so before? Let's get you out of there."

"...So, if it were another matter, you would've left me like this? Honestly..."

"From now on, visit the store during normal operating hours."

A little while after I began removing the snow, she was able to move again and she freed herself from the pile. Maybe it was because of the ordeal she just went through, but when I opened the door, she entered after me with an embarrassed look on her face.

The girl, who goes by the strange name of Youmu Konpaku, started to shiver from the cold as soon as she entered the shop. She was wearing green from head to toe, with a broad and short skirt that seemed very chilly. Her bobbed haircut looked excessively childish, matching the way in which she showed up. But her most characteristic trait was the long sword that she carried on her back about as long as she was tall and the small sword by her hip. To walk into my store carrying such dangerous things, it wouldn't be strange to assume she was a thief. Maybe that's why the shop itself turned against her, by dropping snow on her and all.

"If you are feeling cold, you should go over to the heater. It's been on since yesterday, so it must be rather warm."

"Ah, thank you very much. I will at once."

After she entered the shop, her behavior became very polite... She's probably "that kind" of girl.

"It might be too hot, so take care not to get burned..."

When I glanced at the direction of the heater, she was there with a relaxed expression on her face, looking almost slovenly. I guess she's the same as Reimu and the others then.

As the water in the teapot on top of the heater was almost boiling, I put in some snow and ice I brought from outside.

"Can we get started? First, what is your business? You said you came to investigate something about these phantoms..."

"Correct. Do you know why these phantoms are gathering here?"

"If I knew, I'd be doing something a lot more interesting."

"In that case, you didn't gather them here deliberately, I see."

I wondered what I would even do with a bunch of phantoms. That aside, for the past little while I've had my eye on a conspicuously large phantom that had wandered in at some point, and is now monopolizing the heater as if it was enshrined there.

"Did anything strange happen before the phantoms started to gather?"

"Before I answer that, just who are you? Do you exterminate phantoms with that sword? Or maybe you are just curious about them?"

"Oh, forgive me for not mentioning it before. I happen to know something about the cause of these phantoms gathering here. As you can see, I'm also a phantom, if only half of one..."

What? So she isn't human? Well, it doesn't look like I'll be able to ask her to do either youkai or phantom extermin... wait, a phantom!?

"Phantom, you say? But since when do phantoms have a physical body like yours? You can't possibly be a ghost, either."

"Yes, of course this part of me 'here' is the human one. My phantom part is the one 'there'.

The girl pointed to the big phantom monopolizing the heater.

It seems like she's able to control phantoms. In this case, she may be used to dealing with them. There are such strange occupations in Gensokyo.

"So, allow me to ask you again... Did anything strange happen lately? Like picking up an object, for example..."

"They just suddenly started to gather one day."

I was beginning to figure out this girl's intention from the way she placed her questions.

"Yes, I know that already..."

"You just said you had some knowledge about this. However, you are trying to get information out of me. In other words, you want me to say something that you don't want to admit yourself?"

"Uh, i-it's nothing like that!"

"In that case, can't you tell me what you already know?"

"Y-yes, very well... I'll just ask you directly. Did you happen to pick up the 'Soul Torch'?"

Soul Torch? Did I pick up something like that? I pick up a lot of stuff, so I don't remember the more commonplace objects.

"What exactly is this Soul Torch?"

"The Soul Torch is an item used for guiding a countless number of souls; it is something that originally only existed in the Netherworld. The light from it can be seen by phantoms no matter how far away they are or how many obstacles are in the way. And when they see it, they flock to it."

"Ahh... I see. So that's it..."

Now that I think about it, I picked up something that looked like it in Muenzuka, just before winter started. Just where did I put it?"

"So it's here!?"

For some reason, the girl seemed really happy.

"Yes, I'm quite sure I picked it up. That was some time ago though... But I don't remember bringing in a torch or lantern. Wait a moment."

"Thank goodness..."

I looked into the pile of lanterns that I picked up over the last autumn, and found something like it. It looked like a paper lantern the size of one's palm, and it was indeed glowing somehow.

"This is the Soul Torch, right?"

I had the ability to know the name and utility of any item, after all.

"That's it! That's it! Ahh, what a relief..."

"It seems like it started glowing by itself... Is this cold flame the light of a disembodied soul?"

"Yes, but you don't need to concern yourself about that. As long as you possess the Soul Torch, the phantoms will continue to gather here."

I see, so that's what it amounts to.

"I think I'm just now realizing the reason why you came to my shop. You see, I told you that the phantoms were gathering, but I didn't say that they were being a bother. It was you who carelessly dropped it, wasn't it? Maybe you could manipulate phantoms but once you lost it, you couldn't control them anymore?

"No... I'm not able to manipulate phantoms..."

"All this time, you really just wanted to get it back, right? If you don't tell me the real reason why, I don't think I will be able to give it to you."

"Ooooooh... boo-hoo"

So finally, she began to divulge her reason for coming.

The girl apparently lived and worked at a large mansion in the Netherworld. And there she was entrusted by the mistress of the place with the custody of this important item, the Soul Torch. However, it seems that she carelessly dropped it while travelling. That does seem likely for this girl.

When she realized she had lost it, she couldn't remember where she would've dropped it, and without bringing the matter to her mistress, she was at loss on what to do. She would search for it during breaks in her job for a while, but since she couldn't make any progress, she gradually forgot about it altogether. Likely of her, I suppose?

"In the end, Lady Yuyuko found out about it... and she was awfully mad at me."

"Well, that's obvious."

But was the reason she got angry because she lost it, or because she didn't tell her about it? I wonder if she knows herself.

"Lady Yuyuko said that she could make the Soul Torch shine no matter where it was, and that I should go look for where the phantoms were gathering."

If she can make it shine wherever it is, then I'm sure she would be able to know where it is too. It seems awfully convenient that she could only "make it shine". She actually wanted this girl to go look for it. So what she was angry about was definitely not having been told about it.

What all this means is it's because I picked up this item that I'm now surrounded by phantoms and frozen to the bone. And on top of that, I'm being used to teach a lesson to this girl.

"I can see that you are extremely relieved that you found what you were looking for... But this Soul Torch is already 'merchandise', you see. I can't give it away for free. I haven't opened the shop yet, but maybe I can make a special sale for you."

"What!? No way! Just give it back, please..."

"Hold on. I got a good sense of this lantern's value as soon as I saw it. Being an item from the Netherworld, it is not something that's easy to come by, right? So the price should fit the value...".

Knock, knock.

"Yo! Wow, did it snow a lot yesterday or what?"

The door opened, and the cold-sensitive Marisa entered.

"Ah, Marisa? It's dangerous, so open the door more quietly. The snow on the roof might fall, you know."

"What? But there's no snow on the roof. Which is kinda weird, actually."

"And why?"

"'Cause I really don't think ya took it off yourself. Ya never were one for manual labor, right?"

A good amount of time had already elapsed since that girl came to visit this morning. If it were still snowing, there would be time enough for a lot more to pile up. On the other hand, there would still be quite a bit of snow shovelling to be done.

"Ahh, there was this kind person here, and she removed the snow from the roof and from around the store for me."

"Hmm... Hey, izzat Youmu? How weird for her to come here. And the rest of the store is warm enough, so do ya really have to be so close to the heater?"

The girl spent the whole morning removing the snow from the roof for me, so obviously she was freezing.

"Ohhh, my whole body's frozen stiff... Are you really friends with this cruel shopkeeper, Marisa?"

"Yup, you bet. He sure is cruel, ain't he?"

"That is something I cannot ignore. How was I cruel? You came to my store to buy something, and then you said you were empty-handed, right? You can't live like that in Gensokyo."

"Gensokyo is such a strict place compared to the Netherworld..."

"Ahaha, no way! There ain't anywhere more relaxed than right here. I betcha got tricked by Kourin into shoveling away the snow, right?"

Somehow, I got the impression that Reimu and Marisa must always be making fun of this girl. Probably because of her immatureness and earnestness. But shoveling snow is a small price to pay for a life lesson, if you ask me. 

As spring came closer, the snow-covered Gensokyo gradually regained its colors. Winter's whiteness was fading from the lowest reaches of the mountains. But those low reaches were once again being colored white, as if replacing the snow. Spring's whiteness, the cherry blossoms.

I have a good view of the cherry blossoms from Kourindo's window, so if you think I would purposely go outside for a flower-viewing party, then you are mistaken. Isn't it satisfactory to see the flowers from inside my own store? I don't like noisy gatherings, and going to a flower-viewing party with people I see all the time is not that pleasant. I will quietly watch the cherry blossoms alone, from inside my store. I don't think there is a more elegant, or rather, refined, way of watching flowers. The humans who go out for flower-viewing parties are those poor people that live in the forest or somewhere without a great view of the scenery; they seem more like the "naive" kind of humans, enticed by the magic of the cherry blossoms.

Knock, knock.

"C'mon Kourin, it's flower viewin' season! There's a party every day at the shrine!"

"Oh, Marisa? There are flower petals all over your hat. Wipe them off before coming in."

"But I left them there on purpose..." said Marisa as she went outside and shook her hat.

Marisa's house, in the Forest of Magic, doesn't have any tasteful vegetation like cherry trees, and in fact the forest repelled honest people, so it was extremely obvious that Marisa was elated to see cherry blossoms.

"So, aren'tcha going? To the flower-viewing party, I mean."

"A flower-viewing party, huh... I have other things to do today, so I shall pass."

A flower-viewing party with Marisa would be a fairly noisy one, and I don't like noise.

"But 'cha don't look that busy to me. Whaddaya got ta do? Will it take long?"

"Yes, I have another flower-viewing party to attend. A quiet one."

"Alright, go to your wake of a flower-viewing party." said Marisa, as she left.

I resumed my quiet event. Watching the cherry blossoms alone from the inside of my store was the biggest luxury I could ask for. And so it continued as night fell.

The next day, the cherry blossoms were even more splendid.

Since the previous day I had a flower-viewing party consisting only of absently-minded looking at flowers, today I thought of having a more refined one. And I can think of nothing more refined than reading a book.

My storage of books doesn't only have ones from Gensokyo, but also many from the outside. Still, I had quite a number of them about cherry blossoms, regardless of source. However, there wasn't a single book about the Skunk Cabbage, even though it's a related species of plant.

Just from that, you could see that cherry blossoms were a special flower to the Japanese. Since a long time ago, both humans and youkai have been driven insane by the color of the cherry blossoms. Some people would become exuberant under them; others would think of death in a sentimental fashion. Even in the distant past, the effects of the cherry blossoms could be seen.

Knock, knock, knock.

"Is anyone here?"

"Welcome." It was the half-human girl from a while ago. Youmu, I believe.

"Ah, thank you very much for before. Thanks to you, Lady Yuyuko was only a little angry with me." [2]

"That's good to hear."

I don't know to what extent, but from what I heard from Marisa later, this girl was made to gather all the stray ghosts in Gensokyo, and was still looking for unfound bodies. If so, then was she in the middle of that punishment when she first entered my store?

"But even if you say that, all I did was sell you an item... Are you looking for something to buy today as well?"

"No, I was passing in front of your shop, and I thought of both giving you my thanks and inviting you to a flower-viewing party."

I think that if she hadn't said that she was just passing by, the thanks would have a higher value. But anyway, seems it's another party invitation.

"The cherry blossoms at my Lady's garden are several times more impressive than the ones here. But even so, today's flower-viewing party is actually at the shrine"

"Hum... Unfortunately, I have other things to do today."

"Oh, is that so? Well, the cherry trees will not run away, but the blossoms will, so please come see them while they are still blossoming."

I saw Youmu out, and turned to watch the cherry blossoms several times less impressive than the ones in her mansion while reading a book. And so it continued as night fell.

Again the following day, the cherry blossoms were even more splendid.

By the way, the book I was reading yesterday obviously mentioned cherry blossoms. That was also a roundabout way of viewing the flowers. As to why read a book about cherry blossoms while under them, this is just a way of enjoying life. People who don't know how to enjoy life are the simplistic and emotional kind. When they see cherry blossoms they say things like "How pretty!" or "Aren't they beautiful?" or then "There are many ways to enjoy the cherry blossoms." like they know what they are saying, but are actually only exposing their foolishness. Being satisfied with speaking whatever is on your mind is such a simplistic and childish attitude, you see. Humans that only talk like that are not much different from shikigami or tools.

When you just let yourself sense the blossoms in front of you, without comparing them to ones from another place or ones you saw in the past, you will gradually arrive at a true flower-viewing event. To attain a certain sophistication, one must be able to appreciate subtleties.

Today I moved the heater I had left out all this time into storage. Naturally, you couldn't get a real spring feeling with it around. But I still felt a little uncertain. Maybe the mornings and evenings would still feel a little cold.

Thinking of the heater reminds me of Youmu coming here yesterday. The truth is that what she said about those magnificent cherry blossoms bothered me a little. For starters, the connection between cherry blossoms and ghosts is a deep one, so when you talk about the cherry blossoms in that lady's garden full of ghosts, you can feel some cause and effect there.

There are a considerable number of plants that turn into youkai in Gensokyo. Especially the cherry trees that lure people to their deaths; those have a great magical power. And not only cherry trees, but all kinds of dangerous plants exist in the Forest of Magic. Trees live longer than humans, and occasionally even longer than youkai. The only ones who have seen all of Gensokyo's history, are none other than the trees in Gensokyo.

Knock, knock.

"Is anybody there?"

"Welcome."

"The store was open, so I imagined you would be here, but..."

The ones who came were the ones from some time ago, the vampire lady, Remilia Scarlet, and her maid Sakuya.

"There wasn't anybody at the shrine, so I thought Reimu might have come here..."

If you look closely, the mistress' dress is also cherry colored. Vampires live long by sucking human blood. They might be fundamentally the same as cherry trees.

"No, I haven't seen Reimu here for a while."

"Today I decided on a whim to have a flower-viewing party at the shrine, but then she decided on a whim not to be there!" The cherry-colored vampire had some unreasonable complaints.

"That's right! Won't you come to the flower-viewing party at the shrine as well?"

"Is that OK, even if Reimu isn't there?"

"The cherry blossoms are blooming regardless."

"And also, since the shrine is wide open, there will be food and drinks available," said the maid, smiling. With a maid like this around, I can't carelessly leave the shop unattended.

"I am glad you invited me, but it's still operating hours for the shop. So I guess I will have to decline."

"If you see Reimu, tell her to go back to the shrine if you please." She said that, and then both of them left.

I kept watching the cherry blossoms as I packed up the heater. And then the day ended.

Again the next day, the cherry blossoms were endlessly splendid.

Did they ever manage to find Reimu yesterday, after all? But then, even if Reimu wasn't home, it's easy to imagine them noisily carrying on under the cherry trees. And the image of Reimu's indignation at coming back in the evening and finding everyone helping themselves to her property was also on my mind.

The cherry-colored vampire and the red-and-white shrine maiden. If you mixed red and white, maybe you would get that cherry-pink color. But there is a big difference. The red and the white are not there to be mixed. In other words, there should be a boundary between them. Since ancient times in Japan, red and white have been used for joyous occasions, and conversely black and white are used for somber ones. It should be noted that for both, despite being on different ends, the color white is used. Putting it simply you might say the red color means a good omen, while the black means a bad omen. That's how it appears, but it's actually not the case. The white is indeed indispensable.

In that case, what does the white indicate, you might think. Firstly, it is not recognized as a color proper. Why? It's because it can turn into any other color, which makes it an unique type of color. If you were to give it a number, it would be "zero". On the other hand, red is the color of human blood, so it also symbolizes life. It's the color of a human's first perception of life, a color of genesis. You could think of it as existence itself.

So basically, red and white symbolize the distinction between existence and nothingness. That's why the red-white boundary means "joyous". By using red and white mutually, this border is emphasized, and the borderline represents the beginning of all things. That's why the ancient people thought of it as a good omen.

So, what about black and white? Just as white is not recognized as a color, black is not either. Black is simply darkness, and in the darkness all colors turn black. Nothing can be born from there. If white is zero, then black is a void [imaginary] number. Besides them being zero and void, nothing concrete can come from the border of black and white. Basically, life can't be born from it. The difference between red-white and black-white is analogous to the difference between this world and the next. So there's nothing mysterious about the fact that red and white symbolizes life, while black and white means death.

So, why does the color of cherry blossoms bewilder humans, and charm a great many people?

Knock.

"...The cherry blossoms are certainly white."

"Welco..."

There was the sound of the door opening, but why wasn't anyone at the entrance?

"I'm looking forward to tomorrow's flower-viewing party."

"!! ...When did you enter my store!?"

The one who suddenly appeared in my store was Yukari Yakumo. I am not really comfortable around this girl. Not only can I not understand how she thinks, but I feel as she can see right through me. Whenever she is close by, I feel terribly uncomfortable.

"And besides, everyone around here seems to be having parties everyday. Shouldn't you take a rest?"

"Oh no, tomorrow will be the first flower-viewing party."

"I see... So you haven't been to the shrine?"

I had this image of everyone around Reimu being loud fools, so I was a little surprised.

"Why, no. I have been at the shrine every day. But tomorrow will be the first flower-viewing party. It's tomorrow that the true cherry blossoms will bloom."

I didn't really understand what she was saying, but it seemed today wasn't going to be a flower-viewing day. I was thinking that if I got invited to another party today, I might as well go, but I feel I escaped from that. I guess today I'll view the flowers by myself some more while I drink tea.

"Today I just came to confirm the cherry blossoms' whiteness. Now, I'll be going to the shrine again. Under the shrine's crimson cherry blossoms. Ah, that's right. It's unrelated, but did you know that the origin of red and white banners as an auspicious symbol is from True Hachiman? Most people have forgotten about it. It's such an old thing."

With that, she left through the front door without waiting for an answer. I can't follow her line of conversation, so I can never fully understand it. I believe that, in a conversation, you are supposed to be able to expect what your partner is going to say, so that no matter how fast it goes it can follow a logical course. Unexpected words sound the same as Buddhist prayers.

I had some tea and watched the cherry blossoms. If I were to say it, I'd say that these cherry blossoms are whiter that those from other places. And maybe this wasn't only due to the variety of cherry tree. I don't know why, but up until last year, they weren't so white in the first place. But by any means, I will participate in the flower-viewing party tomorrow. If I get invited, that is...

The next day, they were in such full bloom that they made the previous days' blossoms seem like fakes. There were such swelling white waves that it looked as though they were going to drown the shop. It already seemed as if nothing but cherry blossoms existed outside the shop's windows.

That's right, could it be the cherry blossoms originally couldn't bloom that much? Nature is always surpassing expectations. After all, weren't things like expectations unnecessary for fantasy?

But anyway, if you think about it calmly, aren't they blossoming a little too much? Cherry flowers shouldn't last this long even when there's no wind blowing. For something that is supposed to be fleeting to be lasting for so long, it actually makes me feel anxious. Are these cherry blossoms really going to fall...

Knock, knock.

"Are you there?"

"Welco... Ahh, Reimu?"

Reimu, who should have been at her shrine watching the flowers every day, came here. Reimu seemed busy around the clock with preparations and clean-ups, so I was rather expecting Marisa to show up here.

"Lately, it seems there's always flower-viewing parties going on. Almost every day someone comes to my house."

"Isn't that because the cherry blossoms at the shrine are splendid ones?"

"I guess..." Strangely, I felt a certain awkwardness from her. Obviously, even Reimu might be feeling tired from day after day of parties.

"Today I'm borrowing the back of your shop."

"The back of the shop? And what do you mean by borrowing?"

"To watch the flowers, of course. That's where I'll be doing my viewing today."

Ahh, of course. So she wasn't tired from continuously watching the flowers after all.

"Everybody told me about it. The cherry blossoms at the Kourindou were about to fully bloom. So I came to see them, and it seems they are already perfect."

So, as far as these girls were concerned, the cherry blossoms up until yesterday "still hadn't blossomed"? Does that mean I was the only one who thought they were in full bloom and kept having lone flower-viewing parties? So maybe all the recent visitors were here to check on the state of the cherry blossoms at the back of the store?

"I don't really like noisiness, but, did you call everyone else already?"

"No, I didn't call anyone, since I was only coming to give the cherry blossoms a look. But I think that they will naturally gather here in a little while."

"And why is that?"

"Because that's how it is."

Was that natural for Reimu? As far as she was concerned, it was obvious for people to come to where she was, and since it was obvious, she didn't concern herself too much about it.

"If you say that, then I suppose this shop will soon get really noisy. Maybe I should close up for today. I don't think I'm going to be doing any business."

"Really? I thought you never did any business."

"That's because the people who visit the most are not customers."

"No, it's because there's nothing in this store that anyone wants to buy!"

The white cherry blossoms at the back of the shop. White is the lack of color, and at the same time, the basis for all colors. The seven colors of the rainbow are all based on the color white. If you combine it with red, the color of genesis, to form red and white, all kinds of different colors might be called forth. The fact that the flowers became white and blossomed fully at the same time that the red-and-white Reimu came is not a coincidence. This is all the doing of those ghastly cherry blossoms. And then when Reimu comes, people start to gather. And so, while no one notices, they are being manipulated by these blossoms.

The cherry flowers bloom thinking only of luring people to come gather under them. If you think just of all the gathering, across dozens and hundreds of years, then it seems they have a mysterious magical power, despite only being plants. The cherry blossoms at the back of the store made themselves white to better attract people's eyes. And so they called Reimu's redness, and thought of obtaining all the seven colors of the rainbow through that red-and-whiteness.

I am probably the only one who noticed their scheme. This way, by manipulating humans, they may be gradually turning into youkai. If they end up acquiring power enough to hurt humans, they will become more than what humans could handle. Just when had the trees at the back of my store become so devious?

...Oh, well, whatever. Wanting to boisterously watch the cherry blossoms, wanting to die, wanting to gather, it's all quite natural. At any rate, the sakura having both red and white means the birth of colors, and that's a good kind of birth. It's the birth of a new season, so the blooming of the cherry blossoms should really be the start of the New Year. Obviously this is impossible, but at least I am in a New Year's mood. Being manipulated by the cherry blossoms's magic isn't so bad.

"What's the matter? Why that happy face?"

"Well, it's New Year, you know, so you've got to be happy."

"It's kind of late for the New Year."

"By the way, do you know the reason why the red and white is for joyous occasions?"

"Of course... it's since she is a shrine maiden, isn't it?" [4]

Outside the window, I could see some black mixed with the cherry blossoms' white coming this way.

But for some reason, I couldn't see this black as a bad omen. 

In the beginning, nothing in this world had a name. It was a world in which all things were mixed together in chaos. However, the gods in those ancient times gave a name to every last thing, and so the orderly world we see today was born. When naming something, a new border is created that makes it recognizable as one thing. You could say that the power to name is the creation to produce the object from nothingness, clearly the same power as a god's. And because of the strength of this power, the things themselves remember their names. And that's why I can see those names in them.

I left the window open, so as to let the summer breeze blow throughout the store. The sunlight in summer was so strong it made even walking outside a trial. It wasn't so bad inside the shop, and just to enjoy the breeze a little more, I hung a wind chime by the window.

Knock, knock.

"You're here, right?"

"I am, but... Why do you sound so happy? Not that this is unusual for you, Marisa."

"I dunno if it's unusual or not." she said as she took off her hat and sat atop a pot for sale. Even if she wants to play cool, it's way too hot today.

It was full-blown summer outside. And she had that big skirt and frilly dress. I worried if that big black hat and heavy clothing was too hot for her. But the big hat should block most of the sun rays, so perhaps she was unexpectedly comfortable.

"Ahh, it's so hot my brain's boilin'! Oh, and I picked up this thing here. Maybe it's a stone from the outside world or somethin'?"

"Hm?"

Marisa took out a small square stone. Surprisingly, it had some metal legs growing from it. Quite a mysterious stone.

"This is... certainly a stone from the outside world."

"'Swhat I thought. There's no way a weird stone like this could be from Gensokyo. So, anything interestin' about it?" Marisa seemed very happy.

"This is called a semiconductor chip. It's a manmade stone used in the outside world. Basically, it's something they use when controlling shikigami
 but unfortunately, it doesn't have any use by itself."

"Oh, is that so? Whatzit missin'?"

"That much I don't know, only that it is a part of a bigger tool. Stones like this are meant to be used by putting a number of them together. By doing that, you can apparently give all kinds of commands to a shikigami."

"So I guess one isn't enough, huh? Well, I'll just use it as a charm fer now." With that, Marisa stuck the chip to the ribbon in her hat.

Having understood the identity of the stone she had brought, Marisa looked satisfied and was now reading a book. When used by people who know how to use them, semiconductor chips are said to be capable of almost anything. So even if she doesn't know a specific way of using it, maybe something capable of doing all kinds of things would be well-suited for an amulet. In terms of size, it's no bigger than a thumb and it doesn't really get in the way, so it might be perfect for that.

As far as Marisa is concerned, until she knows its name, a semiconductor is just another stone. A silly little black stone with legs sprouting from it. In Marisa's world, something that doesn't have a name cannot be distinguished from other things. But upon her hearing its name from me, the stone suddenly took on individuality, and clearly became an amulet.

I didn't just make up that name, however. It had already been named. The difference between Marisa and I is simply being able to see this name or not. Perceiving an object's feelings and perceiving its memories are one and the same. It's a matter of having love for them, just by having this love, something like knowing a name becomes trivial.

Knock, knock.

"Are you here?"

"Yup, sure am."

"Ah, there you are, Marisa. Wait, not you! I was asking if Mr. Rinnosuke was here."

"Ah, Reimu? I am. What is it today?"

"I have something I want you to take a look at.", she said while entering the store as if she owned it.

"What is it? If you want some tea, there is some over here."

"Oh, really? You're awfully well prepared." She came back with a rice cookie in her hand. She was far too cheeky.

"So, what didja wanna show us?" For some reason, Marisa was asking instead of me.

"Oh, yes... I wanted you to take a look at this stone."

Another stone. So Reimu brought some stone from the outside world or something? Not that I think that finding a stone is such great joy though. If you were to make a tool out of a stone, it could only be something like a paperweight or a flint stone.

"It's pretty big. But isn't it just a normal stone?" said Marisa.

"Look closely!"

"Let me see it. Oh, this is..."

The stone she handed me had the shape of part of an animal's backbone. So this wasn't a stone, but a bone. That in itself wasn't strange, but its huge size was. It was a piece of backbone as big as one's hand, almost too big.

"This is some kind of bone, isn't it? They call it a fossil, right? I came because I though you would know what kind of fossil it is, Mr. Rinnosuke."

Hmm. This stone indeed looks like a "fossil".

"A fossilized bone, huh? But an animal big enough for that bone wudda been huge, right? Like, bigger than Kourindou. But there were animals big as that long ago. So what kinda animal did this bone come from?"

So Marisa also thinks this is a fossil from a dead animal, but originally fossils were not things buried in the ground. A fossil is what the people who dug them called them afterwards. So to think that there were animals this big long ago is a huge misunderstanding. I can't just let that pass without teaching them why fossilized bones look like they belong to animals impossibly big by today's standard.

"Ahh, Reimu, Marisa. It seems like you both have a great misunderstanding."

No matter the strength of the summer sun, it is dark inside the store. And even though the store is cramped with merchandise, the ventilation isn't bad. Gensokyo is a mountainous region, so the wind basically never stops blowing. That way, even in summer, it feels comfortable inside the shop.

The summer wind rang the chime hung on the window, but it was also making some of Kourindou's mysterious merchandise rattle, so the wind chime's sound was drowned out. I thought that if the wind continued disturbing my wares like this, some of them might soon end up damaged. But since they weren't likely to be sold, and since I get a steady arrival of new goods, I didn't mind it too much. Of course, the really valuable items are all kept safe elsewhere.

"What kind of misunderstanding? Anyone would think this is a bone no matter how they looked at it."

"Oh, this is indeed a bone. But it is not a fossil, you see."

"But it seems to have turned to stone..."

"A fossil is a 'stone of petrified bone named after the animal it originally belonged to.' It only becomes a fossil after the name of its animal is known. Until then, it has no name, and is not particularly distinct from any other stone."

"In that case, if I asked you the name of the animal it belonged to, it will become a fossil?"

"That would indeed be the case, but... actually, that's impossible. This animal was from before the time the gods named everything; a nameless animal. This is the only kind of thing that even my ability can't identify."

"Well, in that case, since I discovered it, I can name it, right?"

At the same time that the power to name is a god's power, the gods themselves didn't have names in the beginning. Like with Takemikazuchi no Mikoto or Hachiman, the names of the gods we are familiar with nowadays only represent but one aspect of these gods. Takemikazuchi no Mikoto was originally Mikatsuchi (Pot Spirit), and just as the name implies, he was a god lodged in a jar. When his name changed to Takemikazuchi, he changed from a god of sorcery (as implied by the 'pot' character) to a god of swordsmanship (implied by the 'thunder' character). By changing its name, a god changes its nature, which is evidence that a god's name is only one aspect of their selves. In the beginning, the gods had a much more ambiguous shape, so they were nameless entities with no particular distinctions.

Conversely, the gods who still retain their original form can only possess things from before everything was named. Because if a god were lodged in something with a name, then it could only display one of its aspects.

"Are you saying that you want to make this a fossil instead of a bone?"

"That's not what I meant... It's just that not knowing its name gives me a bad feeling, you see. And I'm curious as to what kind of creature an animal this big could be."

"You say that the owner of this bone was big? That's your biggest misunderstanding."

"But..."

"Try to imagine an animal large enough for this bone. Its height would surpass this shop by far, and its length would be as big as the shrine grounds. There's no way an animal this big could have lived. First, think of how much food it would have to gather; and it wouldn't be able to move its body quickly. And how would it be able to take care of its offspring and bring them enough food? There couldn't possibly have been an animal that needed a body so big."

"Huh? But this is a bone, isn't it? And where I found this fossil, or fossil-like stone, was full of them. What are all those then?"

Strangely, Marisa didn't seem interested and was reading a book. I guess she doesn't care about things like ancient animals. Except that this isn't a story about an ancient animal. It's a progressive topic.

"The animal this bone belonged to was originally normal-sized. And this bone used to be the same size as those we are familiar with. But after it died and its flesh went back to earth, its bones continued to grow. The proof of that is that only recently have these huge fossils been discovered and everyone making a fuss over them. Some time ago, they were still too small, and nobody could have found or made a fuss over them."

"Are you telling me that after it died, the bone continued growing by itself? There's no way that could happen."

"Of course, normally something like that wouldn't happen. But then why did this bone get so big? Ah, yes. The reason is that this isn't actually a fossil. Because it's actually from an animal from before everything was named, you see."

I picked up my cup of tea. The tea had already cooled, but I let that happen on purpose, of course. Only people like Reimu can drink hot tea with a straight face during the summer.

"Not having a name means that this animal wasn't distincted from others; it just blended in with the world. You couldn't say it was stone, bone, soil or animal; it just was. It was something close to a god's original form. Therefore, it was the only kind of thing a god could take residence in. And so that in the distant future it could gain corpus and reign above the ground, these god-bearing bones are enlarging to a size fit for itself."

"Wait, wait, wait a moment! You're going too fast; I can't keep up."

"Really? But it's simple. The bone you have is part of an individual that will turn into the incarnation of a god."

"I somehow doubt that..."

"The fact that it continues to grow is one evidence. But there's an even more definite proof. The fact that even with my ability, I can't see its name. Which is to say that it doesn't have a name."

"Well, I don't think I could make the same conclusion. So then, what kind of god this bone will become?"

"Can't you imagine it right away? An incarnation of a god with such a huge backbone. Even in Gensokyo, you rarely see one
 but I'm sure you know about them."

"Ahh, of course. So that was it... Now I get it."

The sun was beginning to set; the sky was slightly tinged in red. The midday heat had all but subsided, and only the sound of the wind chime was left as a reminder of the day's heat. The two of them seemed satisfied and went back.

Of course, not even I can see the names of things that come from before the age when the gods named everything. But when humans find a bone from that age, they just name them as they please. And when they do that, a nameless piece of a god becomes established as just another stone. This is what they call a fossil.

When a piece of a god turns into a fossil, it then stops growing. And when a human sees this bone stopped halfway in its huge transformation and says something like "Long ago, there were animals this big." it's slightly pathetic how lacking their imaginations are.

Knock, knock.

"Ah, there was one more thing I forgot to ask."

Reimu came back, just as I was removing the wind chime and closing the window.

"What is it? Still something about the bone?"

"From your story, I understood that this bone was 'a part of a dragon'. But, in the place where I found it, I also found a lot of old shellfish fossils. And those are sea creatures, right? Do you know why they were there? Could it be that Gensokyo was underwater long ago? Even though it's so deep in the mountains"

Humans with such scarce imagination are seen pitiful by other people. To think that "Because there are sea creatures buried in the soil, this place was underwater long ago." is simply too pitiful.

"Really? So there were shells buried along with the dragon bone. And why does that make you think that Gensokyo was underwater long ago?"

"What? Well, isn't it true? If a place that was sea becomes dry land, the shellfish would get left behind."

"Not at all. If the sea slowly becomes land, all the sea creatures would have fled deeper into the sea. On the other hand, if there was an incident severe enough to turn sea into land instantly, the shells most likely wouldn't have remained in their original shape. In any case, there's no way they would remain in one place and turn to stone."

"If you say so... So what are those shells, then?"

"Dragons, you see, have to be born in the sea. And for them to be reborn, where their bones lie must be like the sea. So the shellfish are there for this image."

"I've never heard about dragons not being able to revive away from the sea."

I had really hoped that Reimu, who is a shrine maiden, would have more knowledge about gods than me. But then again, she's just a child, so I guess I'll have to teach her some more.

"Dragons are reborn in a thunderstorm at sea, rise to the skies, and soar through the heavens. Proof of that is given by the fact that the sea, the rain and the heaven were all named by the dragons."

"You seem to know a lot. Though I can't be sure if this is all true."

"The reason is that sea, rain and heaven are all essentially the same word. Because the characters for the three of them can be read as 'ama'. The word for 'fishermen' is often read as 'ama', which proves it actually means amabito, 'people of the sea'. Rain umbrella is read as 'amagasa' and the River of Heaven (Milky Way) as 'ama no gawa'. Dragons call up thunderstorms while soaring through the heavens, and the Dragon Palace is said to be in the middle of the sea. So even you can see that they have a profound connection with water, can't you Reimu?"

I saw that Reimu was still a little doubtful, but I wanted to improve her imaginative capacities, so I continued.

"One more thing, as proof that dragons run through the three 'ama' there are the rainbows that cross the sky. Why those appear after a storm is because they are the traces of a dragon's appearance."

"Ahh, now I see. I think I understand what you mean."

"That's right. For a dragon to be born, the three 'ama' must be present. The rain and the heaven are here, but Gensokyo doesn't have a sea. That's why the dragon creates a illusionary sea. And, as an image of this illusionary sea, there are the clam-shaped stones that sleep alongside him."

Reimu seemed convinced, and went back to the shrine just before it became dark.

I did not make up a single word of what I told Reimu and Marisa today about the dragon's stone. Only I know about that, but the truth is that fossils are also called "dragons" in the outside world. Dire Dragon, Winged Dragon, Sea Dragon... they have many names for them. I believe what I know is considered common knowledge outside of Gensokyo.

By the way, in Gensokyo, when an animal dragon turns into a dragon god, those bones are not fossils, but living bones. The reason why that happens is because the ancient animals in Gensokyo are not named. And in not being named, it means that their bones refuse to turn into fossils and keep growing.

I could not give a name to something from before the age when everything was named. As for the things that even my ability can't see the names of, I don't delve too deep in their memory about them. This would be the same as borrowing the power of the gods without permission, and I can't see that as anything but haughtiness. 

Not that I was expecting any kind of response from it, but I was dusting the keyboard I had for sale. The keyboard was part of an item called a computer, and the most I could say about it was that it was a tool with almost too many buttons. I always like to keep my merchandise clean, but these keyboards were particularly difficult to maintain, as they would soon become covered in dust. They definitely weren't made in a shape that is convenient for people.

Amongst my merchandise, the rate of arrival of computers, which is to say the number of them that were recovered in Gensokyo, was quite high. And as there were few who wanted one, they are quite problematic. On top of that, they are big, so they take up a great deal of space. As of late, I'm not even picking up the ones I find unless their shape attracts my eye.

Computers are tools that behave according to orders from their masters; you could say they are the outside world's shikigami. But their strange and complicated construction, as well as their uninteresting appearance speak volumes about the culture of the outside world.

In Gensokyo, a shikigami's appearance is an important matter. They could be a fox, or a cat, or many other kinds of interesting forms. Which is only to be expected, since the shikigami already had their original forms before becoming shikigami, and became one after being given the necessary abilities. Of course, the tool facet of a shikigami is its most important part, but for a shikigami to look like a mere tool would simply be missing the point. I guess that in the outside world they only care about the contents, and not the appearance. But isn't that a little too impersonal?

Knock, knock.

"Hey, it's gettin' pretty chilly, huh? Looks like the season of short sleeves is almost over."

"Ah, are you still wearing short sleeves? How long did you think summer was going to last? Soon it'll get cold enough for me to have to bring out the heater."

"Nah, even though I'm weak to cold, I don't think ya need that yet... But hey! Isn't it strange to put coffee in a bottle with a small mouth like that?"

The drink Marisa had just identified as coffee, while having a somewhat similar name, wasn't actually coffee, but a drink called cola, a drink from the outside world. At least for drinks you don't have to know how to use it, just what its use is, in order to drink it.

"What? Cola, you say... But hey, ya shouldn't just drink things you find lyin' around, yeah?"

"Don't worry, this is for sale. Because here at Kourindou we sell the items we pick up."

While she didn't entirely understand my logic herself, Marisa seemed to agree as she sat atop a desk.

The days were starting to get shorter. The sky was already turning red, the kind of color that prompts one to head back home. It's often said that in autumn the days fall as fast as a bucket. But since that means the speed in which the bucket falls, it doesn't quite match the idea of the sun setting earlier. Maybe this explanation is wrong, and there's a more profound meaning to it. I'll think about it next time I have time.

"Oh yeah. Can ya give me one of those computers over there?"

"Oh, really? You're saying you want to buy one? I'll give you a bargain..."

"Nope, don't got any money. I just thought havin' a shikigami would be fun."

"No money, you say... Well, I guess I can just put it on your tab..."

If people who come to look at stuff they don't intend to buy are called "window shoppers", then what do you call people who come to get things they don't intend to pay for? Maybe "Marisa shoppers" would be suitable?

"Yeah, sure. That works."

"All right, I don't even know what other choice I would have anyway... But make sure you pay it off later. Now then, I have many different kinds of computers, big ones, small ones... What kind do you want?"

"Gimme a big'un. Bigger's stronger, right?"

Marisa had already hefted a big computer in her arms and walked out into the evening with it. It was an unsuitably large item for such a small girl, but when watching her emboldened figure carrying it, it felt extremely Marisa-like. It was kind of mysterious. Tools were usually simpler the bigger they were. And Marisa's big computer looked quite simple at first glance. However, its insides were surprisingly bizarre and complex, more than anything else in Gensokyo.

Shikigami as complex as computers could only be created by the skills of the outside world. And not only computers, but from tableware to the sheets of paper used for newspaper, most of my items are the results of the technology in the outside world. And the humans that the youkai usually prey upon are humans from the outside world. As a closed space, Gensokyo seems to have warded itself against the benefits from the outside. They say that "If you can't beat them, join them."[1], but you shouldn't join something stronger just because it's easier or safer. It's a moral to train those that have become weakened by cowardice, scurrying into tiny spaces like mice. When you put yourself with something bigger than you are, your outlook widens and you have many more opportunities for learning.

By shutting itself into a closed space, Gensokyo gradually forgets about the benefits it gets from the outside world. And this is not limited to Gensokyo, the smaller the place you put yourself in, the more you don't notice the benefits from the bigger things. In this kind of situation, thinking that Gensokyo is somehow better than the outside world is but arrogance. When living in a small place, people get arrogant and lose the drive to improve themselves. By looking at Gensokyo today, one can understand how both humans and youkai are just carrying on with their degenerate lifestyles.

Me, I think that, for the sake of my search for knowledge, I would like to go to the outside world someday. In other words, I want to join those I can't beat. I dream of improving myself and putting my knowledge to good use there.

The computers I've been collecting lately, amongst their various functions, seem to specialize in transmission of information, or so my ability tells. You wouldn't think that this square box is a shikigami capable of moving on its own, but once it moves, it is said to be able to gather information at an incredible speed. However... this is something I find difficult to imagine.

If one were to make a shikigami that collected information, it should be in the shape of a tengu, even if were just a fake. That way it would not only be a fascinating computer, but one that would certainly possess the ability to gather information. That was the universal way of thinking in Gensokyo.

Before going to sleep, I took a look at the empty cola bottle. This 'cola' leaves a bit of an acrid taste in your mouth, but its bottle's shape is certainly pleasant to look at. Maybe it's a drink very suited to Gensokyo. If the outside world shikigami had interesting appearances like this, they would sell a lot more at my shop. And so I spent the evening, thinking of these things.

Knock, knock.

"Mr. Rinnosuke, are you there?"

"Yes, I am."

"I just heard from Marisa... So you've been reduced to surviving by eating what you pick up now?"

Even without computers, news travels surprisingly fast in Gensokyo. It was just yesterday, but it had already reached Reimu. However, this information had already changed into something different. I wonder if information gathered by computers also gets changed like this.

"Eating what I pick up? All I did was drink some cola."

"Cola? I don't really know what that is, but it's something you picked up, right? You shouldn't just drink things you're not familiar with..."

Reimu was holding the empty cola bottle with a suspicious look on her face. On the inside, it was just a dark liquid, but on the outside, its bottle was made in such an interesting shape that you couldn't ignore it. I could sense a great wisdom in this. I wonder if the people who created computers and the people who created cola were the same.

"So yesterday, Marisa was really happy about getting a computer. She got it from this store, right? If she just took one, you should have at least told me too..."

"Actually, I sold her that. She didn't just take it away. But I don't think anything will happen just because she has one. I just recently realized, but these shikigami are a little different from the kind of shikigami we know".

"Can't you tell just by looking?"

"Well... I suppose you certainly can. But rather than just that, they are different in concept. What we usually call a shikigami is a 'spirit made into a tool by creating a pattern'. In other words, they are created by turning fantasy into reality."

"That's why you see so many with one-pattern minds."

"However, I can't really see these computers as having a spirit of their own. They were tools from the beginning. I imagine them more as a 'tool made into a spirit by creating a pattern'. In other words, they are created by turning reality into fantasy."

"I don't get it. Like dolls that move on their own, you mean?"

"In the outside world, things of fantasy don't exist. Or rather, things that don't exist are called fantasy. That's why humans invented tools that can create fantasies."

"Hmm. And what do you think Marisa is going to do now that she has one of these shikigami?"

"She will likely just neglect it like her metal scraps."

Knock, knock.

"I heard that. I didn't scrap it just yet."

"Ah, so you were here, Marisa?"

"I wasn't gettin' anywhere with the computer, so I took a break and came on over. Don't you have any more cola?"

"Cola tastes like medicine. It's really not that good."

"I thought it'd at least be as useful as a doll or somethin'..."

Marisa was standing in front of the door, looking just like she had let a prankster fairy escape. She had a clearly disappointed look on her face.

"A doll? And since when are dolls useful tools?"

"Hey, there are people that use dolls t'help around the house, right? Isn't that kinda like using a shikigami?"

"What are you saying? You couldn't possibly make a doll realize what they're doing."

Seems like Marisa once again has a misconception. She made a dubious face as she sat on some of my merchandise. Reimu was very Reimu-like, fiddling with one of the small computers without asking. She seemed a little afraid that it would start moving when she touched it.

"So you say that moving dolls are similar to shikigami, right? That might be possible, but the dolls in Gensokyo right now are not shikigami-worthy."

"I don't even know what shikigami are s'pposed to be in the first place. Ain't they like familiars or something?"

"Familiars and dolls have their similarities. And familiars and shikigami also have their similarities. But dolls and shikigami are very different things."

"Okay, so what? I've seen them move and work just like they've been told, y'know?"

"But dolls, you see... are only being manipulated."

Marisa's face was tinted red. The evening sun was already setting. From now on the days would get shorter; and the power of the youkai would only continue to become stronger.

Yesterday, I spent some time thinking about the autumn days falling like a bucket. What if the "falling like a bucket" is not referring to "a bucket down a well", but rather to the "youkai's name[2]", the tsurube-otoshi, who attacks people from the top of the trees during dark nights. In other words, maybe it means that as autumn advances, the tsurube-otoshi become more active. In this case, there's no problem regarding speed or time.

"So if dolls are bein' manipulated, what's so different about shikigami? It looks like they're always bein' manipulated too..."

"To make a doll move its hands, you have to pull a string attached to them. To make it look like it's walking, you have to pull the strings on its arms and legs. To make it appear alive, you pull all of them."

"But did those dolls have strings...?"

"They don't have to be physical strings. It could be magic or something else, but it's certainly some kind of manipulating power. For a doll to move its right hand, someone must manipulate it into moving it. For a doll to help with housework, you have to manipulate it into doing housework."

"That sounds pretty handy. That should make doin' chores by yourself a snap, right?"

"I suppose it would. If you can manipulate many at the same time, then not only would it become easier, but it would also let you do things you couldn't normally do by yourself."

"I get it. So that means if a doll is talkin', then it's just bein' manipulated to look like it's talkin'? Just a lame one-person act."

"And as for the shikigami, they are like servants who move according to orders."

"Hey, isn't that the same as the dolls?"

Reimu was in front of a computer, no longer trying to make it move and now drinking tea. She no longer seemed interested in it.

"They're completely different. Shikigami move according to orders, and they can have other abilities. If we were to compare it to the dolls example from earlier, you could say that if you want the shikigami to move their hand you don't have to pull it. Just saying 'Raise your hand.' would be enough."

"Because shikigami are alive, after all."

"Just because they are alive doesn't mean they have to follow orders. If I told you to raise your hand, would you do it?"

"Yeah, sure. Look!"

"You really are a hopeless case..."

"So then what? What do I have to do if I want to use the computer?"

While we were talking, it had become just a little bit darker. Soon enough it would be the time for the tsurube-otoshi to go on a rampage. But in these girls' case, it's more like they would gladly go searching for the tsurube-otoshi even if they had no business doing so.

"Well, in that case... You'd have to at least possess enough power to make the computer listen to what you say. In other words, 'If you can't beat them, join them.'"

Will there come a time when these computers could be used in Gensokyo? As far as I can see, it's not likely that the ones in Gensokyo could become used in daily life without the benefits from the outside world. In that case, the only way to employ computers would be to go to the outside world.

Transmission of information in Gensokyo is fast. That's because there's a lot of curious people. If the people here are able to gather information themselves instead of using these outside world shikigami, then computers might not be needed in Gensokyo at all.

While looking at the non-functional computers, I thought that for the sake of learning, I too would have to someday "join them." "Them" being the outside world. Gensokyo takes the benefits of the outside world for granted, and that's why everyone leads a freewheeling life here. I understand this only too well, since I deal in items from the outside world.

Even though we shut ourselves inside Gensokyo, we take from the outside world only the things we deem convenient and pretend to be independent. But the truth is that if the outside world were to crumble, Gensokyo would soon follow. And on top of that, while being in Gensokyo you can't affect the outside world in any way. The people living in Gensokyo are leading a life in a small place from which they can't get out, and I understand that to be simply the easiest choice.

Marisa was probably thinking of having the computer do her housework for her, but a tool from the outside world wouldn't show its true nature to the indolent mindset typical of a small place.

If I were to use a shikigami, I wouldn't think of any other than a computer. But until the time I can give orders to computers and attain greater strength than what I have now, I'll just continue studying about the outside world.

"What happened? It's already dark, so I guess we better get goin', right? Too bad I couldn't figure out how to get my computer to work"

"Oh yes, and remember not to put things you find lying around in your mouth."

"Yes, it is quite late. Oh, yes. Wait a moment, you two. Before you go back I have a gift for you. Think of it as a sample."

I said that with my gift already in mind. Yes, something I could give to these people of Gensokyo who are lacking whatever makes these shikigami move, me included. Something that would convince them to proactively join something bigger.

I gave a cola to both Marisa and Reimu. 

Truth is built upon information just like a tower that is built upon sand. Extra editions that were constantly being released for whatever reason fluttered around in Gensokyo's wind, and irresponsible news articles permeated everyone's conversations. The articles ranged from old news to recent news, and from facts that everyone knew to ones of questionable truth.

Most of the truths we know are built upon information. When an event takes place, we usually don't have the chance to witness it with our own eyes. With luck, we can at most conjecture about it through the information that the event creates. And what we call truth is built upon this uncertain base of information.

Most truths are not only built on uncertain bases, they are also fleeting and fragile. Truth is, in fact, easily changed by information. If one is to create information, then one must keep in mind that this information will change reality. There's no such thing as information that conveys only but the truth. Truth itself is the ultimate illusion, an illusion that doesn't exist even in Gensokyo.

And there were a lot of newspapers being scattered around that didn't seem to understand that. That's because there was a tengu news tournament going on until recently. This tournament is not a new event, but this year there was an unprecedented climax, and at the same time, the tengu newspapers seemed to permeate every corner of academia in Gensokyo.

But the question remains of why this news competition that has happened every year has suddenly increased in activity. I can think of two reasons for this. One is that the recent incident's aftermath provides a plethora of article material. And the other one that I believe has a more direct relation is that the supply of paper has seen a sudden increase, and its price has dropped accordingly. If the availability of paper increases, it's a matter of course that the number of newspapers will increase too. And similarly, the fact that paper has become more easily available is something I'm very grateful for.

Knock, knock.

"Honestly, when you release extras every day, then there's nothing extra about them!"

"Yes, but they'll still be a bother even if you bring them inside my shop."

Reimu had a sheaf of newspaper prints (all of them extras) in her hands. We are not a garbage collection establishment, and there is no way those newspapers could be considered articles to be sold.

"Oh? What are you doing? You don't seem to be reading a book."

I was facing the table moving a hand that was holding a writing brush. Yes, I had started to write a book. I had always wanted to write one, but couldn't easily get hold of enough paper. But now that paper is easy to come by, that's at least one thing I can do.

"I was thinking of writing about everyday happenings."

"Like a journal? But what would it be useful for?"

"Because the authenticity of these newspapers is somewhat questionable. So I was thinking of writing the facts as close as possible to the truth."

"That's still not truth."

"When you write down a truth, it is not truth anymore. That's why it's impossible to write down the truth. Don't you know why there isn't any historical history in Gensokyo?"

"Because every day is peaceful? The things that remain as history are things that were good for a few people and bad for a lot. And even if we have an incident, it's quickly solved."

"That's not all to it. There's a simpler reason for the lack of history!!"

Our conversation was interrupted by the sound of a window pane breaking.

"Extra! Extra! If you don't read it, there'll be no tomorrow!"

You could hear a distant tengu voice through the broken window.

I quickly went and looked through the broken window, but the figure of the deliverer was already far away, and didn't seem to worry at all about the glass she had broken.

"Geez, they can call it extra or whatever, but can't those tengu deliver things in a more calm manner?"

"The fact that they are distributing extras around is already weird in itself."

As an emergency measure, I stuck some of the old newspapers Reimu had brought over the broken window. Using newspaper pages gives it an appearance of poverty, but it would work fine as a paper frame. It was the season of cold winds out there, and it was better to cover it with newspaper than nothing.

"Won't a newspaper frame get torn easily? Like when another extra gets thrown through the same window?"

"No, that won't happen. Even if it's newspaper, paper is stronger than glass. By a wide margin."

"I wonder about that..."

"Haven't you ever thought about that, Reimu? Why such thin and weak-looking paper is used for door and window frames, I mean."

"Isn't it because it lets light through?"

"If that was the only reason, it wouldn't be strange if they had all been replaced by glass by now, would it? And lately, the need for gathering light from the outside is decreasing."

I told Reimu about the mysterious nature of paper frames as borders. Even a child could tear that paper if they wanted to. If they were touched by dirty hands, their original state can't be restored. Unlike glass, paper frames can't be washed.

And because they were like that, if they were torn or dirtied, someone would definitely be to blame. Children that were rowdy around them would get scolded, and the ones who would touch them with dirty hands would be stopped. For these kinds of individuals the paper frames served their first purpose as paper frames.

In most cases, this was the duty of those who lived in houses with paper doors. The sturdiness of the paper frames would ultimately be based on the power of the household to keep them that way. In a way, their strength is immeasurable.

Thanks to the paper frames, people don't act violent near buildings, and nobody handles doors roughly. If they were replaced with a sturdier material, like iron or stone, then the behavior of people would turn rougher, they would even start acting violently inside buildings. And before long, even their sturdiness wouldn't hold.

Paper frames have the power of preventing dangerous behavior from people. The strength of a paper frame is not definite; it is proportional to the strength of the ones living inside it. The paper frames of an abandoned house can be torn apart even by a baby, but not even an adult could tear the frames of a shrine housing a god.

"Hey, Mr. Rinnosuke, do those unbreakable paper frames have eyes?"

Looking at the window, I saw an eye peeping through a hole in the newspapered frame.

"So, what does today's extra say?"

As a punishment for making a hole in the newspapered window, I made Marisa fix it.

"Ahh, it was really unimportant. They decided the winner of the tengu newspaper competition. Some paper I've never heard of, the Great Tengu's 'Kurama Humorous Report.'"

"That's really unimportant, isn't it..."

"That's really unimportant."

I have read the Great Tengu's "Kurama Humorous Report" already, but this extra that was just thrown through my window, the "Bunbunmaru Newspaper," was so exaggerated it was somehow cute. Its contents were a great way off reality, and all of its articles were riddled with half-truths yet written in a humorous manner. And in addition, everything was packed together so tightly, as if it were trying to appear voluminous. It was truly awful.

Maybe by having a lot of news crammed together, people who just couldn't think deeply about anything would get a sense of having acquired more knowledge. If knowledge was just enumerated information, then wouldn't human wisdom be the same as books and newspapers enumerating events? The reason that we can get knowledge from books and newspaper is most definitely not because the knowledge is written on them. The things written on books and papers are but an uncertain basis on which to construct the truth. They are just information and that's not enough to gain knowledge. When you think about what this information is, then it starts to become knowledge. Regarding its content at least, this "Bunbunmaru Newspaper" has more inquiries, and its knowledge goes much deeper compared to the Great Tengu one, or so I think. Well, regarding its content, anyways.

"By the way, why has the number of newspapers increased so suddenly? I had no idea before, but this newspaper competition is held every year, isn't it? If that's true, then the competition can't be the only cause, right?"

"The main cause would be paper becoming much more accessible. The price of paper in Gensokyo has just dropped sharply. Seems a great quantity of paper is dropping in from the outside world."

"Hmm... First phantoms, and now paper. Sounds like all kinds of things are dropping."

"Computers are shikigami capable of gathering information without using paper. When you consider that together with the increase in paper, then you could say that paper has already reached the realms of fantasy as a form of transmitting information. It may even be that the act of writing books itself has already become fantasy in the outside world. But, it's thanks to that I'm thinking about writing one now though."

"Maybe they're becoming more forgetful?"

"You mean that all writers are forgetful?"

"Yeah, they're all like Indian strawberries."

"You mean like that and Nichiren Oshou?"

"I believe what you two want to say is 'three-day monk'"

Gensokyo doesn't have any historical history. And that is not because everyday is peaceful and the incidents get quickly solved. There's a simpler reason.

That is because a youkai's life span is too long. Even if an event were to become history, as long as the involved party is still alive and can go changing the information at their will, the real truth cannot be determined, not upon this uncertain foundation. Truth is a tower built upon the sands of information. If a truth of uncertain authenticity is built, it will crumble in the wind. No matter how many "towers of truth" are erected, they can all melt under the rain. Objectiveness is the most important thing in history, but if the concerned party is still around, it cannot quite separate from its interests. And that's why there's no history in Gensokyo.

I intend to use this paper that fell in from the outside world to write about the Gensokyo I see in the most objective fashion I can. If that can become history, then the beginning of my writing of this book will become our very first history. And this first history would be exactly about the birth of Gensokyo's history. I wrote, at the beginning of my book: "The history of Gensokyo has been born."

"Anyway, this is just too much paper
 Where are the tengu gathering so much of it?"

"The only reason for the amount of paper to be increasing is because it is decreasing in the outside world. Like I said before, the very use of paper as a way of transmitting information might be already fantasy."

"So it's all word-of-mouth now? Well, there are a lot of people in the outside world, so they must have a lot of mouths at least."

"So that means that, in contrast, communication through paper might become popular in Gensokyo."

"Like the tengu newspapers, y'mean? That'd be annoyin'."

"Yeah, it would be annoying."

"Well... I suppose it would be annoying."

Gensokyo's history would soon be born through my hands. The age will come when my book will become Gensokyo's history textbook. At this time, academism will start to take place in Gensokyo, and Gensokyo will become closer to the outside world. Incidentally, if my book does fly off the shelves, it would help a lot with the shop. If I sell more than just goods I collect, then Kourindou could maybe rise above that of a mere second-hand store.

Due to the large amount of paper raining down on Gensokyo, its price has dropped. And at the same time, newspapers and books can now be written, increasing the demand for this paper.

If the price of paper goes down in Gensokyo, it goes up in Luoyang. When paper disappears in the outside world, it proliferates in Gensokyo. When large flocks of crested ibises fly through Gensokyo's skies, they must have disappeared from the skies of the outside world. There's a balance to everything. People who only focus on the small things could never see the balance of the world.

"But really, all these papers have completely pointless stories. Like figurin' out the width of the Sanzu River. What's so good about that?"

Marisa was flipping through the sheafs of old newspaper Reimu had brought, reading some of the pointless contents in them.

"Because the width of the Sanzu River is related to how much time you take to be ferried across it. Even a human like you would be more relieved in dying knowing it, isn't that so?"

"It'd be borin' if it takes too long, so maybe I can bring somethin' along for the trip?"

"Seems like you realize yourself that the Sanzu River will be wide when you cross it, Marisa."

"Better wide than narrow."

"No, it's not. The width of the river depends on your relationship with others. If the number of friends good enough to lend you money is small, it'll be wide. If you go taking away things from my store on your own, it will be so wide you won't be able to be ferried all the way across, you know?"

"That's why it's good for it to be wide. If it's so wide, can I take some stuff from the store with me?"

Even though the newspaper was full of unimportant content, the girls could use it to get their heads working and acquire some knowledge. Knowledge is something you think about yourself, compare it against your existing ideas, and apply to your own situation. It's not something that's written somewhere, you have to pick up what's written and think about it for knowledge to first appear. While it's thankful that there are newspapers and books that gather lots of information and happenings, they don't really gather knowledge. Your knowledge won't increase just by seeing, reading, memorizing, writing or speaking.

I think it's a mistake to declare a newspaper like the great tengu's one that promotes these things the winner. Judging the merits of a newspaper only by the number of subscribers is dangerous. Couldn't they see that this would just increase the number of humans and youkai that misunderstand knowledge? The next time I meet a tengu I'll be sure to mention it.

"But anyways, this tengu newspaper competition is over now, right? That means the number of unimportant extras will finally go down."

"That's right. And they were delivering extras with such regularity that it was the same as having a subscription. Well, I do have subscriptions, and even so I still got extras delivered to me. I'll be glad if they only did that when there's an extra with big news that relates to me."

"But there'll be another newspaper competition next year, right? And with them bein' so quick to think and act, the tengu might soon be startin' up for next year"

Marisa's line was interrupted by another extra tearing through the paper frame. The two of them looked at it with surprised expressions.

When I thought of having to fix paper frames all throughout the year, I started to feel a little dizzy. 

Snow seen through the window grabs insanity of the moon, and blackness worn by the dark is absorbed through the pen into papers. By the day I read books, at night I write the day's events in a book. Mysteriously enough, after I started keeping a journal, I started to notice even the most trivial events. I noticed that the real meaning behind writing a journal is not to remember every day's happenings in order to reflect on the past, but to raise one's sensitivity so as not to overlook even the trivial changes.

People usually take in an incredible amount of information in living. And, while the information that doesn't hold interest to them just flows past, what is interesting is detected by their antennas and stored. Keeping a journal can help to amplify this sensitivity to its extreme limits. You could say it is the same effect as using a valve amplifier. Now that I have started writing a diary, and my sensitivity is raised to its maximum, I probably won't overlook even the most trivial things.

Knock, knock, knock.

There was a sound at the store's entrance.

"Just who could it be this late at night?"

Relying on the light gathered by the snow on the window, I went to the front door. It had been some time since I closed the shop, and its interior was freezing cold.

"Are you open?" standing there was the maid that served the vampire.

For someone that came calling in the middle of the night, she didn't seem in a particular hurry. But I suppose that most of her hours of activity were nocturnal. By the look on her face, she considered it normal to go out in the middle of the night. Her mistress being a vampire, I guess that can't be helped.

"What are you saying? All the lights are off, it can only possibly mean that we are supposed to be closed."

"It could be that you were conserving energy, or absent. I was wondering which it would be."

I wonder if, in case I was absent, she was planning on coming inside by herself in order to get what she wanted. This is why I don't leave my place carelessly.

"I am looking for a lucky item... Do you have any?"

I lit the store's lights. At the same time that this vanquished the madness of the moonlight, it brought back the gloominess of the night into the store. I believe it is a very uncouth thing to come visit a shop after it's closed, but as long as it is a customer, I don't mind too much. I've even had customers visit ridiculously early in the morning.

"Lucky, you say... That's a rather vague request. I have a 'meteoritic iron with an engraved shinto gate' that I just received..."

"No, not something with such little credibility. Don't you have something you can tell is a good omen just by looking at it?"

I couldn't possibly imagine what would she use for an object of good omen in the middle of the night, but if it was something I had for sale, I wanted to sell it. Lucky items are usually articles with little utility, so I don't have much interest in them. I told her, "In that case, I have just the lucky item for you." and went to fetch an article of exceedingly good omen that was lying deep in storage.

"Oh my, such a colorful tortoise shell. That certainly seems to be of good omen."

"Red and blue, black and white, and yellow at the center. All in all, a five-colored shell. I don't think I've seen anything with better omen to it."

"But... a shell like this seems strange for a tortoise. It's too big, and rather smooth."

"Right, this isn't a tortoise shell. It's a 'Kappa's Five-colored Shell.'"

It takes a while for my heater from the outside world to warm the cold interior of the shop. When the room finally started to warm up, my head also started to work better.

"A kappa, you say? Where do the kappa live again?"

"There are kappa living in the mountains. You all might have never set foot around there, but there are a lot of youkai living in that area. But this shell is not recent. It's from more than a thousand
 probably from 1300 years ago, I suppose. In any case, it's quite old."

"That is rather old."

"But since I would rather not receive complaints after the sale, I will advise you beforehand that while I was told it was a kappa's shell, I can't ascertain absolutely that it is. Even so, a five-colored shell is the best lucky charm one could have."

I spoke truthfully about the credibility of it being from a kappa. And so, the maid's face expressed a little doubt. Seeing her expression, I changed the subject.

"By the way, why is it that you want a lucky item? And this late at night, on top of that?"

"That's because... It seems we need a lot of luck for a great magic spell to be successful."

Her story was a rather bizarre one. A few days ago, the Scarlet Devil Mansion where this girl Sakuya Izayoi worked at was celebrating Setsubun. A vampire chasing away oni would be a strange event. But these kind of mysterious events were frequent at the Scarlet Devil Mansion, so it wasn't all that out of place.

"Just when the celebration was ending, there was an incident with the moon. Though I suppose you don't know about it."

I read about it in the Bunbunmaru News some days later. It seems that on the night of Setsubun, a terrible disaster had split the moon into pieces. The moon crumbled without a sound, and was restored without a sound. And, considering the time it took place, just a few actually witnessed it.

"But what is the relation between the moon incident and a lucky item..."

"My Mistress was surprised to see the fragmented moon and said once again 'This time, we will go to the Moon.'"

By "this time", it means that she had previously made a sudden decision to go to the moon. She wanted to perform some magic spell that would take her to the moon (a spell apparently named "Project Apollo"), but apparently, she didn't have the necessary ingredients, and the spell failed

"Project Apollo" is an extremely difficult and complicated magic spell from the outside world. I've browsed several grimoires detailing the spell's procedure, and the procedure, the ingredients and the tools seem to be those of the highest level magic. In addition, many of the ingredients and tools are of no understandable use. Even gathering each item piecemeal would be extremely hard. That's why I believe there's not a single magician in Gensokyo capable of performing it.

"The Mistress' magician friend said 'I have enough of the ingredients, but for magic of the highest level to succeed, fortune of the highest order is needed'. And so she ordered me to 'Bring me the luckiest item in all Gensokyo'"

"How unfortunate."

Performing of a spell is consisted of six elements. Those are the caster's "Ability", the "Temperament" of the soul, the "Substance" of the ingredients and tools, the "Space" in which it takes place, the "Time" during which it is performed and finally "Fortune". Of these, Fortune carries the most strength, as long as you have Fortune on your side, it can cover for the other elements. On the other hand, if there's no Fortune, even the simplest magic will fail.

"The other elements seem to be almost complete, with only Fortune remaining. We need something extremely lucky. Nothing as common as four-leaf clovers or bamboo flowers, so I wondered if something more unusual would be acceptable"

I don't think unusual things and lucky things are the same, but maybe that's the accepted idea at the Scarlet Devil Mansion. If unusual means lucky, then rather than a kappa's five-colored shell, some tsuchinoko sake might be better.

However, I had the feeling that this would be my best chance to sell this kappa shell. I couldn't possibly let this chance escape.

"This five-colored shell is not only unusual. In fact, it is perfect for what you need."

Lucky items must have a history as being lucky. So I spoke at length of why this item was not only lucky, but why it was ideal for her.

I went to sit on a chair by the heater, having decided to continue the conversation while sitting. I offered her a chair, but she said "I'm used to standing." without moving from her upright posture. Being the only one seated, I pointed to the shell she was holding and began to explain.

"The colors of red, blue, white, black and yellow can represent everything in nature. The directions of East, West, South, North and Center. The seasons of Spring, Summer, Autumn, Winter, and Setsubun. And the five elements of Fire, Water, Wood, Metal and Earth. In short, those five colors can represent everything in our world. Those can even cover the Space, Time, and Substance necessary for performing magic. Besides, the tortoise is considered to be good omen since long ago for being the animal that carries the world on its back. So all the colors of nature represented on a tortoise is the greatest sign of good omen an item could be. It is often said that tortoises are capable of living ten thousand years. Of course those wouldn't be normal tortoises, but the ones that have shells such as that."

"But didn't you say that that this shell was from a kappa rather than a tortoise? Do kappa live ten thousand years as well?"

"And that's why this item is perfect for you. Kappa are often related to the Chinese river youkai called kahaku but this is not correct."

"That's the first time I've heard of such, though..."

"Kahaku are gods who live in major rivers. I can't help but think that putting kahaku and kappa together is flattering the kappa a little too much."

"That's right, kappa are even worse than tengu."

Just because there's a youkai with a similar name in an country in the outside world, to think that they are the same creature is unreasonable. And, as far as wording goes, it's only natural to use the same character for river for creatures who live in rivers.

"I believe that kappa are creatures who changed to become more like us."

The water kettle atop the heater started to whistle. As I brewed some tea, the chilled shop finally started regaining some appearance of vitality.

I wondered if the maid wouldn't take it on to herself to brew the tea, since it should be her habit, but apparently she wouldn't do that at other people's houses. This was proof that she was a proper maid. If you think about it, there might be people who prepare tea and clean things up at other people's houses, but that's rather insensible. When you come to other people's houses, like this maid, you are always a visitor. That's why, even if you offer to help, you are just giving trouble to the host. You would just be insensible to their good intentions.

A maid should be sensible wherever she is, and always avoid discourtesy. Very differently from a certain someone that comes to my shop, makes tea and drinks it on her own whim. So I served tea for her as well.

"So, where did the kappa come from?"

"If you think about the form of a kappa, you'll soon be able to answer that."

"A kappa's form... Now that you mention it, is a kappa's shell smooth?"

Yes, a kappa's shell is a different shape from a turtle's.

"I think the origin of the kappa is related to the kahakame."

But by any means, for someone who comes calling in the middle of the night, this maid doesn't seem in that much of a rush. Maybe she had thought from the beginning that going to the moon would be impossible. She looked like she was just going along with her mistress's version of play.

"Kahakame, the river turtle. Their name in kanji is written with the characters meaning "great turtle". What these characters express is the idea of a huge turtle. It would not be unusual for a fully grown one to reach the size of a human. When these turtles live for many years, they become able to understand human speech and gain the ability to take on a human form, becoming kappa."

"Kahakame... I have never heard of them. And are there really such big turtles in rivers? It is not possible for them to be sea turtles"

She talked like she had seen a sea turtle swim before, which made me a little curious, but I went on.

"Why don't you try remembering? There certainly are. Really big ones, who live in rivers and ponds instead of the sea. Try thinking about a kappa's image again, looking at this shell. Doesn't it remind you of a round and smooth tortoise shell?"

"I see. Now I understand what you meant. This item is indeed just what I was looking for. But even so, my Mistress is definitely going to say something like 'I have nothing to do with water creatures.'"

The maid seemed to reach a conclusion, and returned to the mansion with the five-colored shell under her arm. After paying, of course, and without helping to tidy up anything. She is indeed a proper maid. I cleaned up after both of us, and once again closed the store.

But thinking about her last words, I noticed that she not only had all the knowledge of a maid, but was an exceptionally fast thinker.

As soon as she perceived the true nature of kappa, she must have simulated in her head how it would be to explain it while showing it to her lady. To explain why it is a lucky item, she would have to mention what it was said of that shell. But she was already predicting not explaining about the kappa's true form.

The real form of the kappa are the great turtles. Tortoises that don't live in the sea, but in rivers and ponds, and can get incredibly big. In other words, softshell turtles. If these turtles live for too long, they gain supernatural abilities and become kappa.

Her mistress would see going to the moon while carrying a turtle, by itself, a little contradictory, and likely defeating the whole purpose. And so, not seeing how she is related to aquatic creatures, the maid wouldn't tell her mistress the shell is related to turtles.

The moon and the turtle. Two things that look similar but are indeed very different. However, the turtle is the one we can touch, and that brings good luck. The moon is ominous and untouchable. That being the case, if I were to choose which one is better I wouldn't even have to say that it would be the turtle. Rather than looking at something distant and ominous, it's better to look at something close and fortunate.

She should have realized that much that using a turtle to get to the moon was ridiculous at first glance and did it on purpose. Her mistress won't probably notice, but maybe it will be good enough for her if someone knowledgeable enough in the Scarlet Devil Mansion realizes it.

As for me, more than an unexpected extra income, I got a small feeling of exaltation. As that five-colored shell was too big, no one else was interested in it. It was practically defective stock. And even though it was supposed to be a kappa shell, it was suspicious. When that maid came here, I thought that would be my last chance to sell it, and used my utmost sensibility on that shell and that girl.

When looking at the outrageous goal of going to the moon, and that very maid-like way of acting, the relation between the kappa and the turtles and between the moon and the turtle suddenly flashed through my head. Because it's a lucky item, it doesn't matter that it's completely unrelated. That's why I talked about it in such a roundabout way. Of course, I'm sure she soon understood that, and decided to take the article, as it was all calculated...

I put the brush down and looked through the window. At that moment, I had the impression the moon had shone red for an instant. 

The call of a spring-heralding bird reaches all the way into the shop.

Winter had ended at last, and colour returned to Gensokyo. At the same time, in the land formerly dyed white by the deep snow, bursting into a vivid scenario with spring's arrival, the cheerful fairies and humans started their noise-making. It felt like a sudden rush of pure air had come to a stagnated world, clarifying all you see. It's the reason we have Fresh and Clear Day these clear days in this season. How long since there's been such a clear day this year?

I was writing my diary when I suddenly thought of transcribing onto paper the beauty of this day. A drawing would be fine, but in Gensokyo there is something even more suited for it.

The photograph.

"...Whaddya doin'? Ya really want to reorganize on such a nice day?"

I heard a voice coming from near the entrance. I took another look around inside of the shop and saw that everything was scattered all around as if a thief had entered. I was looking for a certain item, even though I didn't know how to use it.

"Ah, Marisa. How long have you been here? I know the place's a bit disheveled right now, but don't touch anything. Those are articles for sale."

"If ya tell me not to touch anythin', how'm I s'pposed to get in?"

"...Ahh, I finally found it! This is what I've been looking for."

"Huh? Aren't the tengu always carryin' those around?"

The object I was looking for is a "photographic camera". Just as its name says, it's a tool for taking photographs.

I have the ability of knowing the name and the utility of an item just by looking at it. The reason I opened Kourindou was so that I could make the most of this ability. Unfortunately, I can't find out exactly how to use an item.

"I was thinking of placing some pictures into my diary. However, even though I've had the camera itself since long ago, I put it away because I didn't have the slightest idea of how to use it to take photographs."

"Aren't the tengu always takin' 'em like it was nothin'? They do it kinda like... you look into it, and press a button. But I've never actually seen a photo come out 'em, so I dunno what kinda trick they use."

"I'm sure it must be this button here, but I can't get any reaction no matter how much I press it."

I pressed it as I said this, but indeed it didn't even make a sound. Even though my ability definitely says that this is a photographic camera used for taking photographs.

"I always thought it was just some special ability the tengu had. Never thought there was something that did that."

The tengu are a mysterious race, full of secrets. Because they live on a mountain where humans and other youkai cannot set foot, their peculiar society and their amazing technology are kept mostly hidden. All that one can do is read their newspapers. Even though their techniques for developing photographs are a mystery, their printing techniques are even more surprising. No one but the tengu possess the technology to roll off a mass of newpapers like those from outer world.

Incidentally, the kappa also live on the mountain, and you could say they have the same degree of advanced technology. Theirs allows them to craft amazingly precise tools. It might even be that the kappa are the ones who make the tengus' cameras. The items crafted by the kappa are truly curious, and as a curio shop owner, I am greatly interested in them.

But let's leave the thoughts about kappa items for the future and concern ourselves with the photographic camera right now.

"Hm, I guess it's no use, after all. I can't even tell where the photos are supposed to come out."

"By the way, why do ya wanna take pictures? Ya wanna be like the tengu and start a newspaper?"

"A newspaper, huh?"

I do have interest in writing one. If I can write articles that will be read by other people, I could correct society's misinformation about many objects.

But there's an even bigger problem in that. Even if I could figure out how to take pictures with a camera, I still wouldn't know how to handle typesetting and printing.

"No, I couldn't possibly start a newspaper that easily. The reason I wanted to take photos is that, since the spring days outside are so beautiful, I wanted to be able to have a piece of that on hand."

"Don't we have 'em every year?"

"Don't get me wrong, I don't want photos of things I couldn't see, or of things I want to see all the time. What I want to do is to see ordinary scenery from a different viewpoint."

If I could take pictures, then I would be able to use them as a basis in how I view things from the usual. That way, I could see everyday scenery in a very different way. Looking at things from different angles is an essential part of a shopkeeper's life.

"Then just drink some booze. That'll letcha see the same things in a new way. But still, I still wanna know the trick to takin' pictures."

"There's nothing mysterious about that. The basic concept of creating a picture out of something you see is easy to grasp."

"Oh, really? If ya get a real scene in a photo, that's like makin' a second one, right? But if ya make a really big photo, ya can't tell it apart if you're far away, right? But there can only be one far-off mountain. If makin' a picture is like adding, just what's bein' subtracted?"

"The scenery isn't being subtracted, but something else is. For example, if you put up a mirror facing a mountain and stand in between the two, imagine when looking at the mirror."

"Me."

"No, forget about you, look at the reflection of the mountain behind you... The scenery there will be projected just as if in a photograph. In other words, an image can be reflected off a mirror even if there isn't a living eye to see it. It's possible to save that reflected instant, and a photographic camera has the ability to do so. You could say that the actual image isn't diminished or duplicated, but it's that reflected instant that gets cut out."

"Hmm, that's a little hard to understand. But I guess that's how it works since there really are photographs. So, since a mirror has a flat surface, we can only take flat pictures."

"No, I think that, with a little devising, it is possible to create even solid photographs."

I surveyed the store's interior once again and saw that it was truly was disheveled. But I wanted to find something to show Marisa the possibility of solid photographs, so I shuffled through it again.

"Ah, here it is. It's this right here."

What I pulled out was a small dragon-embroidered box. Opening it, there was a triangular piece of glass inside as large as a thumb. I took it out and showed it to Marisa.

"Have a look."

"What's with this glass?"

"This glass piece is an item called 'triangle mirror', or 'prism'. It's a tool for coloring the air."

"A tool for colorin' the air, you say? There you go sayin' weird stuff again"

I brought the triangle mirror closer to the window and held it under a sunlit spot. The triangle mirror absorbed the light and dyed its rays in seven colors.

"Ohh, it's like a tiny rainbow."

"With just this small triangle mirror, it's possible to color the air. And why do the seven colors of the rainbow come out of the triangle mirror, you ask? Because all the three perfect colors and the seven imperfect ones are related to the gods"

"Who cares about that? What about makin' solid photographs?"

"...If you set three triangle mirrors so that they are reflecting their colors from three different positions at the same time, you can draw a solid picture. Afterwards, it's just a matter of making a tool for preserving the air as it was in that instant. A tool that calms the air." [1]

"Hold on there, you keep changin' the subject as always. How come you can draw a solid picture by reflectin' colors from three directions?"

Marisa took the triangle mirror from me and looked at it from various angles.

"If you mix red and green, it becomes yellow. If you mix red and blue, you have violet. With other combinations, you can obtain just about any color. That way, if you cross the rainbows well, you can paint any color. In order to make a solid picture, you'll only need it to have width, depth and height. So, with a minimum of three rainbows from different directions you can account for all the points in the air."

"I don't really get it... But drawin' pictures in the air? That sure sounds interestin'. But that seems like a far-fetched dream compared to the ones that take flat pictures."

Yes, that's more or less right. Even if you understand the theory, it won't come true if the technology is too far behind. No one has made any tools for either drawing pictures on the air or for immobilizing it.

But if we don't come up with new things, all of Gensokyo's leading technology will end up belonging to the tengu or kappa. That's why I'll keep thinking of new things. This is not only my belief as a storekeeper, but to myself personally.

Knock, knock.

"Ah, there you are. It's almost time for the flower-viewing party, you know?"

"Ah, Reimu? Nice work findin' me."

"There aren't many other places where you'd be, Marisa."

"But anyway, it's really messy here. Looks like a thief entered
 or maybe there's a thief inside already."

By thief she was referring to Marisa. She didn't even bother to deny it, just grinned like a cat. Was she thinking of stealing the triangle mirror?

"Oh my, there's a tiny rainbow coming out of that. What is it?"

Reimu was looking around the disheveled shop as she entered, but stopped her gaze on the triangle mirror Marisa was holding.

"It's a triangle mirror, somethin' they use for colorin' the air[2]. You can't eat it."

"It does look hard," said Reimu. Marisa tilted it and projected the rainbow over the floor, then over my face.

"What's the trick behind it, Mr. Rinnosuke? It doesn't look like there's anything inside of it"

Reimu and Marisa just asked whatever questions that came to mind without thinking about them. The best thing to do would be to carefully think it over on your own, then compare your conclusions with others.

But they are still kids, so I let it be. And besides, it was much better than them not even thinking of questions.

"It's not anything inside the triangle mirror. What is important is its triangular shape."

The number three represents perfection and harmony. With three legs you can have stability even on an irregular surface, but that wobbles when it has four or more legs, of course when two or less legs. However, just like in the case of the snake, the frog and the slug[3]; in a three-way deadlock everyone is kept in check, and fighting cannot break out. But if it's two, four or more people, they'll soon start quarreling.

"Three heads think better than one. The three beats of a drum. The Three Sacred Treasures. A Three-Day Emperor. No other number suggests stability as much as three."

"That last one didn't sound so stable at all."

To understand the significance of the number three in the triangle mirror, one needs only to look at its transparence. Transparence represents an entity which cannot be seen, in other words, a god. It's just like the presence beyond the bamboo screens in a shrine. The presence of a god is felt in that transparent space and the shrine is but a place to worship it. And talking about the shrine's sacred chamber brings us to the 'ama.'

"Skipping to the conclusion, the number three in the triangle mirror is the same as the three in a sacred chamber: the sky, the sea, and the rain. And by mentioning these three 'ama', you should be able to tell what god they point to, Reimu."

"Hmm... erm... The rainbow?"

"...The rainbow comes later. Are you really following the conversation?"

"You keep changing the subject like you always do. Can't you explain it a little more slowly?"

Reimu was the one who asked about it out of curiosity, she should have pondered about it herself. I have no obligation to slow down my explanation to her pace. Whether she understood or not, I went on explaining.

"All right, didn't you bring that big animal bone that other time? Didn't I say the same then that it was a 'Dragon' bone?" [4]

Just by being transparent and triangular, a triangle mirror represents a dragon's living place.

"I don't think I need to explain that rainbows are traces of a dragon's passage. So, when something passes through the triangle mirror, in this case, light, a rainbow is created.

"Wai... wait, wait a moment! I took it for granted last time, but how come the dragon leaves rainbows in its trail?"

Oh, geez... If I keep being questioned nonstop, I'm not going to get anywhere with my task at hand. All I wanted today was to investigate a little about how to use the photographic camera.

Hey, didn't Reimu come over to look for Marisa? She certainly isn't in any hurry.

Just by looking at them, waiting for the answer to their question, you can see that they completely forgot about their original objective.

"I see. Why does the dragon leave a rainbows on its trails, you ask? That might be a little complicated to explain. I'll just let you know that you might not be able to understand it now."

"You don't need to make a fool out of me, Mr. Rinnosuke. If you explain it thoroughly, I'm sure I can understand."

"Well, starting from the conclusion, since the dragon is made from the three perfect elements of the world, it leaves in its path the seven colors of the rainbow, which can create everything in existence.

"That's pretty grandiose."

"But you see, the Dragon is the highest god of Gensokyo, it can bring creation or destruction. It's on a different level from the youkai around here by one or two orders of magnitude."

In a world in perfect harmony, there are no gaps where new things can be born. The rain falls from the sky and imbues the seas with the strength of the heavens, then the water evaporates from the sea and becomes clouds. From the three 'ama' elements, you only obtain their own cycle.

The dragon brought dissonance into this world, and from that dissonance everything was created, and the world was changed. To the perfect "three" they added the rainbow's "seven", and the world was organized in the "ten powers". [5]

"Because of that, all substances in Gensokyo are created and destroyed by the interaction of these 'ten'."

"Ohh, when you put it like that, I kinda understand. 'Cause that's my specialty."

"Just what was your specialty again, Marisa?" I couldn't tell if Reimu's question was serious or a joke.

"Well, I'm obviously a magician. Big surprise there, right? You're the one who doesn't seem very shrine maiden-ish."

"Yes, knowledge of substances and their interactions is indispensable for magicians. I know that you are actually quite studious in that respect."

"That ain't studyin'. Readin' books, polishin' spells, I do that every day. Learnin' like that really can't be called 'studyin'.'"

"Wow, you really seem quite diligent, Marisa. But are you getting any results?"

The substances are composed of wood, fire, earth, metal and water. These elements interact with each other through the force of the "ten", and instead of stability, they are in constant transformation. By "the force of the ten" it's meant that: wood fuels fire, fire builds earth, earth brings metal, metal purifies water, water raises wood, wood impoverishes earth, earth absorbs water, water quenches fire, fire melts metal and metal cuts wood.

There is a complex relationship between the forces, not being limited to only the interaction between two substances. If the strength of metal weakens, wood gets stronger, but if wood gets stronger, then fire gets stronger as well, and the earth gets stronger, which leads to metal getting stronger again. And if metal gets stronger, wood gets weaker. As these forces are never stable and are always moving, many new substances are created and destroyed.

"So basically, it's 'cause of these forces that I usually lose to Reimu."

"It's not like I care about a loser's poor excuses, but why do you say so?"

"It's because Marisa is water, and you are wood. And since water raises wood, it means water will usually lose in a fight between the two. But, outside of duels, it doesn't mean you are incompatible. It actually means good affinity."

"I am wood, and Marisa is water... so what are you, Mr. Rinnosuke?"

Just by looking at Reimu you could see she was a spring person, and she lives in a shrine at the very east. This symbolized wood. As for Marisa, she liked to dress in black and lived in a dark forest, away from the sun, that means water. As for me
 just as implied by my name, I'm also water.

"We're quite aways from the subject about the camera. It's because you girls just kept asking questions."

"But there's still a lot I don't understand about the Dragon God."

"You can never actually see the Dragon. And even if you don't understand everything we discussed right now, as long as you think about it later, it will be all right. This way, all the world's underpinnings will slowly come clear to you. And by the way, what about your flower-viewing party? It's been some time since you arrived."

"Ahh, I forgot about it! Even though we have some unusual guests today"

"Unusual guests?"

"Since the weather is so clear today, we're having some tengu over. And today we're... but wait, we are always doing it, but didn't you say you would join us sometime? What do you say, Mr. Rinnosuke, you want to come?"

"Maybe ya can even have the tengu explain to ya the trick behind the cameras."

"That's right, if I wanted to know the workings of a photographic camera, the best thing to do would be to ask the tengu about it. Why didn't I realize such a simple thing before. Wait, tengu!?"

"Tengu, you say!? Out of the question! Sorry, but I'm not taking part in this flower-viewing party."

"Well, I thought you'd say that. But since there'll be tengu there, we can even take some commemorative pictures."

"I'm takin' this triangle mirror with me and I'll ask 'em about solid pictures. The tengu might make it or somethin'." With that, the two of them left.

So she did indeed take the triangle mirror. She kept fiddling with it all the time, so I guess she liked it. It wasn't that valuable, but merchandise is merchandise, and I would've liked to be paid for it.

But even so, going to a party with tengu... That is slightly worrying. Tengu are unparalleled drinkers; the amounts of liquor they can imbibe can't be compared even to the heaviest human drinkers. You can even say they are in the same league as the oni on that. To go partying with even one tengu... or worse, with more than one...

The reason I didn't want to take part in today's flower viewing is not because I don't like noisiness. If I asked the tengu about the camera, they would, just for fun, say something like "If you want to know, drink. If you don't, we won't tell." And then they would make me drink so much I wouldn't remember a thing later. That's the kind of creatures tengu are. And anyway, I have to tidy up my disheveled store. And after that I'll try fiddling with the photographic camera again. I guess I'll just have to find out by myself.

I'm looking forward to hearing from those two tomorrow. If they can remember anything, that is. 

The coolness of the morning and evening winds mix. The Obon sightseeing tours of the ancestors from the Netherworld[1] have come to the land of the living, enjoyed themselves, and contentedly returned home. In the following days, the afternoon heat will gradually lessen.

"The cicadas have been pretty noisy lately, huh? And I've never heard 'em sound this weird either."

Marisa, who was reading a book, closed it violently saying this, and pulled the brim of her hat around her ears. Indeed, the cicadas were abnormally loud, and I've rarely heard this kind of cry before. However, despite not being irritated, I had to repeat myself in a slightly louder voice so she could hear it.

"Yeah, this is the year of the miraculous cicada, you know."

"And what's that s'pposed to mean?"

I know the cry of these cicadas. I heard this same clamor 11 years ago.

11 years ago during summer, while I was separating defective stock as usual, I heard a sound like a low undulation from the direction of the forest.

11 years ago, I had only established Kourindou near the Forest of Magic a few years prior, so at the time I was not as knowledgeable about it, and did not know that the odd sound was the cry of the cicadas.

I only learned of the real truth behind the sounds from 11 years ago the day before yesterday.

Two days ago, I was awoken by the cicada's piercing cries. Cicadas are mysterious creatures, suddenly crying and just as suddenly disappearing. They hibernate within the earth for years, then come out above ground as if they had just remembered they were still alive. Because of that personality, I was tolerant of their presence.

However, this year's cicadas were not normal. These cicadas' cries were much lower than the normal ones I was used to, and there were clearly many more of them.

Because of the cacophony, I shut my window even despite the heat. However, with the window shut it was very hot, and this had an adverse effect on my stock. I also could not sleep well at night, and customers were unwilling to visit.

I contemplated how to get rid of the cicadas, but, unable to take the heat in my store, I left for the first time in a while to the village. Of course, during that time I did nothing but go over in my mind how to exterminate the cicadas.

As I got further away from my store, I found that the cicadas' cries decreased in volume. It appears that these cicadas only resided in the Forest of Magic. I was slightly relieved. Because if worst came to worst, if it was so loud I couldn't be in my store, I could go to the place of a human whom I had received hospitality from long time ago and live there. Cicada's lives are short, so after a few days I was sure it would quiet down.

While I was thinking about that, I arrived at the Kirisame residence. It had been at least 10 years since I'd seen the father, and I was not good with meeting other people from the village other than customers, so I was terribly nervous. I wondered if age had possibly made the father of the house senile, and would be unable to recognize me. The humans of the village mature, then age as years pass. These normal processes don't happen to me, so I can never stay long in the village. I only bring unease and fear to the humans there.

However, such nervousness quickly vanished after some small talk. I spoke to the father of the Kirisame house of matters such as mercantile dealings, the current merchandise of Kourindou as well as the tools of the outside world, and with that, my tension melted away and I was able to get to the matter at hand: the obnoxious cicadas.

"And then I realized while at the Kirisame residence, the sounds coming from the forest were exactly the same as the low undulation I heard 11 years ago."

"Took ya a while to realize that, eh?"

"The notion was at the back of my mind when I arrived at the village, but 11 years ago I didn't think that the sound I was hearing were cicada cries. If I were to give an excuse, the further you go from a high-pitched sound, the more it goes away, and all you can hear is a muffled, low sound. This year it appears that the cicada are very close to my store, but 11 years ago they were far away and all I could hear were the normal calls. It's a very different feeling now than then. That's why I only realized it after I left my store."

It had become hot, so I decided to open the window for ventilation. Even by opening the window slighly, the cicadas' cries surged in like a flood, so I stopped at opening it up just a finger's breadth.

"After I'd figured out that the mysterious sounds of 11 years ago turned out to be the cicada's cries, I asked your father if he knew anything about them. By the way, he seems to be doing well!"

"I really can't hear ya! The cicadas are too loud!"

"It turned out he didn't know the cicada were even active this year, as he hadn't heard them. Of course, he also said he knew nothing of the true nature of the cicadas. I was becoming interested in what that was. So I left the Kirisame residence and went to a certain human family's place."

Those humans are, among the humans in the village, the ones with the most resources and knowledge - the Hiedas. It is a proper, traditional house with a lineage lasting over a thousand years. Everything about Gensokyo is stored in the enormous library that the Hiedas possess. There is no small amount of knowledge about the outside world, as well.

To the Hiedas there is one born every one or two hundred years called the Child of Miare. This Child of Miare is said to have the ability to memorize everything in the Hieda libraries, and currently, it appears the ninth generation of these Children is with them.

The tomes of the Hieda family are, with some exception, kept hidden from outsiders, but recently those restrictions have been relaxed, and if you have a good reason, they will be released to the general public's use. Thankfully, this applies to non-humans as well.

"Hmmm. I think Reimu told me about someone like that, but... I'm surprised they got so much cool-soundin' stuff."

The slightly-cracked window of the store was not doing its job bringing in the wind, and the room was still hot. Wearing that hat was even more so. After saying that she'd like to go check it out one of these days, she took hers off and began fanning herself with it.

When Marisa says "check it out," I'm sure she means "steal things". When I tried to dissuade her by telling her that relations between the head of the Kirisame and Hieda households were good, Marisa looked frustrated and said "Just get back to the story about the cicadas!"

"The Hiedas' resources were indeed vast. It was so huge I didn't even know where to start, but the 9th generation Child of Miare told me that she had 'memorized the entire library, in order to tell people its contents.' Half-doubting, I asked 'Are there any records about these loud cicadas?' and she told me immediately. It appears the rumors about her memory are true."

"Hmmm. Well, if ya know the deal with these loud cicada, ya should also know how do get rid of them, right? So do something about it already! No matter where I go in the Forest of Magic, those annoying cicada are there. I'm gonna go deaf!"

"So plug your ears, then! At that time, my interest had already begun to change. More than how to get rid of them, I wanted to know why there was a sudden outbreak in volume 11 years ago."

The cicada continued their cries as if they were mad. Eventually my ears got used to the sound and it wasn't as annoying, but speaking in a voice louder than normal makes one's throat dry. I poured tea for two.

From the beginning, these cicada were shrouded in riddles. Cicada mature after about 7 years, then all of a sudden go up to the surface, cry busily for about 7 days, and then leave their bodies to reincarnate. It is said that cicada are the vehicle by which sinners who have cleansed their sins in hell reincarnate into the cycle, their souls being temporarily housed in this form.

In addition, there are even more special types of cicada in the outside world, according to the sources. There are 13-year cicada and 17-year cicada. As the names suggest, it appears that they come up once in 13 years or once in 17 years.

The cicada that appear in Gensokyo are mysterious cicada that appear once in 11 years, and are referred to by some people as "Miraculous Cicada". When one asks why are they called Miraculous Cicada, one reason is the mystery behind them living 11 long years under the earth, but in addition whenever these cicada come out, the harvest for that year is sure to be plentiful. The records stopped there.

"Hmmm... So why 11 years? It's a question related to 13-year and 17-year ones in the outside world, too... But in the first place, it's weird to me that normal cicada sleep so long as 7 years."

The resources of the Hiedas had no answer to Marisa's obvious question, but only gave a spectator's view on events. This is proper for reference material, but is lacking in something for those who read it.

Of course, I had the same question as Marisa. However, the main difference between her and I was that all I could do was think about it on my own, but Marisa has people around her that might know the answer. Of course, that person is me.

"Why don't you ever think about figuring it out yourself?"

Marisa didn't even seem to notice that I was scolding her. She continued fanning herself with her cap, waiting for me to continue with the story. Perhaps the cries of the cicada increased my annoyance, or perhaps I've just become easier to annoy lately.

"Oh well, this particular story is a little complex anyways. First, it has been said the first confirmed appearance of the 11-year-cycle cicada came around 100 years ago. In other words, there is a chance that 100 years ago they were made extinct in the outside world and thus came to Gensokyo."

"So yer sayin' that the 11-year cicada existed in the outside world?"

"If you think about it, it is only natural to assume this, since there are 7-, 13- and 17-year cicada in the outside world as well."

"Mmm... That doesn't seem right. If there are 7-, 13- and 17-year cicada, wouldn'cha think there'd be 10- and 15-year cicada left? 11 years seems so half-baked."

I see, it appears that Marisa thinks that by inserting intervals between the number of years it would be more natural. 10 in between 7 and 13, and 15 in between 13 and 17. It is probably more her instincts than anything theoretical. Most people feel satisfied when such gaps are filled in an orderly manner. Marisa's personality seems to be the type that everything but the books in a room would be scattered all over the place, but the books themselves would be sorted by type and put in numerical order. While not surprising, it would still strike me as somewhat strange.

However, I wonder how the instinctively sharp Reimu would have answered.

"No, it must be 11 years. In fact, the cicada of the outside world must realize that the 11-year ones are gone."

"7 years, 11, 13, 17... that set of numbers of years just doesn't feel right."

"Do you understand? Those numbers can't be divided by anything but themselves and 1. They are prime numbers."

Whether they are 7, 11, 13 or 17, they are all prime numbers. The prime numbers greater than 7 proceed as 11, 13, 17, 19, 23 and so on.

I realized that the outside world had 7-, 13- and 17-year cicada but was missing the 11-year cicada. And that Gensokyo had cicadas that came once every 11 years.

"Therefore, I hypothesize that the 11-year cicada were of the outside world, and that for some reason they had become extinct there."

"Hmmm. Ya might give me another earful, but I'm gonna ask again anyway. Why do cicada only show up in cycles of prime number years?"

"That's a normal question to have. But unfortunately, I can't answer it."

"Whaaaat? But the Kourin I know doesn't like questions that go unanswered!"

"Right you are. You understand me well."

"So keep it comin'! What's next?"

It feels like I'm being used, but whatever.

"It's very unlikely that cicada which all come out in different prime numbers of years would all happen to come out at once. The cycle for 13-year and 17-year cicada both coming out at once is... only once every 221 years. Thus, it's probably to minimize the undesirable years when multiple kinds of cicadas are all out at once. If it was 10 and 15 years as you suggested, they'd run into each other every 30 years."

"Oh yeah, I think I get it. Cicada are pretty smart, huh."

"This doesn't mean that they're smart. As I said before, it's said that cicadas are vessels for souls as they leave hell. In other words, it's a system invented by the Yama. It's only natural that it would be clever."

"But how come only the 11-year cicada that are showin' up here went extinct in the outside world?"

"I can only venture a guess, but I'd imagine that between the 11-year, 13-year, and 17-year cicada, the youngest 11-year group became the victims. Those three would only ever all come out at once every 2431 years. After centuries and centuries, that year finally came, and the 11-year cicadas were driven off to Gensokyo."

"Hrm, maybe. Hearin' you talk about it makes these noisy cicadas actually seem valuable. The miraculous once-every-11-years cicada, huh?"

"Exactly, and that's why I don't want to exterminate them."

I bravely opened the window. The 11-year cicadas cried piercingly with the joy of being released from their long-standing sins.

As expected, Marisa covered her ears, making a sour face. Nevertheless, it was still probably louder at her own home than at my shop, which is why she hadn't left yet.

Because a shop full of people who weren't customers was a pain, I drove Marisa out. She reluctantly left, but no doubt didn't return home, instead taking advantage of the hospitality of the shrine or somewhere similar. Although since her family lives in the human village, she should just go back there instead...

How long had these cicada been chirping? When I thought about it, I noticed a strange coincidence linking the Yama to the cicada.

The Yama is famous for holding trials for the memorial service every seven days after a person's death, from the first "seventh day" to the seventh "seventh days". This seven is a prime number, the number of days matching the number of years between times when the cicadas come to the surface. Furthermore, after judgement is passed, if you think about remaining underground to await reincarnation, the number of days a 7-year cicada would have to wait is roughly the same as the number of years that would pass before 11-year, 13-year, and 17-year cicada all came out at once.

Cicada are mysterious creatures. While they were created in accordance with the Yama's system, they seem to have a more subtle nature, and the possibility exists that their nature gradually gains more magical significance.

Why do they stay underground for the same amount of time as the souls damned to hell? Why do they disappear after only a short time on the surface? Do humans have the shortest period in the circle of transmigration?

But in saying so, I wonder what happens to youkai when they die? What will happen to me, a half-youkai? I closed the window once more, lost in thought. 

Youkai Mountain was aflame with reds and yellows. The temperature sharply declined, and the red leaves on the trees, their lives succumbing to insanity, fell to the ground, unable to withstand the autumn wind. As the sun sank behind Youkai Mountain, the tengu could be seen flitting about the scarlet sky. This is the time of year when it was at its most beautiful.

October is called "The Godless Month" because it is said that generally most gods are absent during it, but this cannot be the proper name for such a month filled with such godly beauty. It is actually called "The Fermenting Month," meaning this is when all the grains gathered during the harvest are brewed to make sake.

"You seem to be in a good mood."

"I'm preparing to brew the new sake for this year. How could I not be?"

Reimu looking at me skeptically, asked "You make sake?" to which I simply said "Yes, because this is Kourindo." [1]

Today, the three of us, Marisa, Reimu and I, were to sample the fall mushrooms accompanied with sake. Reimu and I were currently waiting at the store, as a critical ingredient, the mushrooms, had yet to arrive.

"Wow, I didn't know you made sake too, Mr. Rinnosuke. We should try it next time."

Sake seems to taste much better in colder weather. And being that this will be brand-new homemade sake, that should make it even more delicious. October is the month for new rice. And it is only natural to brew new sake from new rice.

"Well, I guess it would be OK, but..."

"But?"

"Only if you don't drink too much of it."

Reimu and Marisa drink without bothering to taste the sake. After I put so much effort into brewing it, that's just a waste.

"We don't drink that much if it doesn't taste good."

"Oh, but it does."

"Then maybe we will drink a lot."

Actually, the reason why I am brewing sake is not to merely drink it. Sake starts out as rice, and I wonder when it is turned into sake. With my ability to know the names of objects, I should be able to clearly distinguish this point. No question about it.

The Japanese have a long history of drinking sake. Thousands of years ago, there are records of "their personality: tastes alcohol" (Old Jap tastes alcohol) in the history books in the mainland.[2] By this time, Japan had already developed its own methods of brewing alcohol.

And this produced rice alcohol, or sake, with a faint, mellow scent, no aftertaste and a refined flavor. There are many different varieties of sake, among them some of the finest of spirits. Just like rice, it had a flavor that suited practically every dish, and was essential to any meal.

"So a distillery here? It doesn't seem like many kinds of gods live here. I wonder if it would really come out all right..."

Reimu's mannerisms exhibited her deep connection to the craft of brewing sake.

It's no mystery that sake and shrines have a very intimate relationship. Originally, the job of a shrine maiden was to drink sake. Drinking sake would alter their mental state and allow them to commincate with the gods of this world. As proof of this, the god of sake, called "Kushi-no-kami," comes from the word "kushi" or "mysterious," meaning that drinking sake makes one do mysterious things. [3]

Sake is a necessity during shrine rituals. As they need sake more than most occupations, a long time ago, nearly the entire available supply of sake was brewed at shrines. While nowadays, you don't hear of shrines brewing sake too often, it isn't out of place for Reimu to talk as if she is learned in it. That's because shrines always have a supply of special, sacred sake.[4]

"So when did you start brewing sake?"

"I just started this year."

A dubious expression formed on Reimu's face.

"Uh, you know that the gods won't ferment it that easily. To begin with, you need a lot of it for it to work. Enough that if you don't drink a lot, you won't finish it.

I had expected her to make that kind of face.

"OK then. I'm sure if I keep trying every year, it'll turn out better. I know I might fail, but I won't get better if I never start."

Ring-a-ling...

"Good fragrance is matsutake, kakishimeji[5], I got the very spirit of fall in these mushrooms right here!"

"Kakishimejis are poisonous."

"Don't sweat the small stuff. Reimu's already here, so put these on the grill and let's start drinkin'."

Tonight's main course had arrived. Holding a hat stuffed to the brim with mushrooms, excited Marisa seemed ready to drink.

"Yes, I know. I'm almost done with the preparations so wash off those mushrooms for me while you're waiting."

"Prep'rations? Whatcha preparin'?"

As she was asking questions for the sake of asking questions, I told her not to worry about it and sort the mushrooms.

"Mr. Rinnosuke started to brew sake."

Marisa said "Ya don't say?" in an uninterested fashion, adding "If ya start now, you're not gonna make it in time for tonight's meal." which was completely obvious.

"Naturally. All I have here are things that will become sake. If you wanted to drink, you should've brought your own. I'm pretty sure there's plenty at the shrine, right?"

"Oh yeah, no problem there. I kinda thought somethin' like this'd happen, so I brought this."

She's well-prepared, but only for herself. Under the heap of mushrooms, she produced a bottle of sake. Reimu, looking surprised, started to say "Um, that sake..."

"Yep, found it sittin' around at the shrine."

"But it's much too soon to drink that..."

While she appeared shocked when she said that, the very next moment, her expression changed to one of aloofness.

"Ah, so you're brewin' sake, huh? That reminds me of when I tried it m'self a while back."

"Wow, that's the first I've heard of that. It didn't go so well, I imagine."

"Wow, that's the first I've heard of that. It didn't go so well, did it?"

"It was an absolute failure." Marisa said, making a goofy expression, tittering and lightly rapping her head. Hearing her speak of her failures was a sign she was in a good mood. She truly is one who doesn't care about her past.

"Since ya can make alcohol from rice and fruits, I thought I'd try givin' mushroom shochu a crack. That's when things got bad."

I didn't understand her reasoning, but Marisa excels in that kind of thinking. Even in magic, she attacks common knowledge with her own unique theories. Such as the theory that magic only has five basic elements, she's the only one who's put forth effort in proving it wrong. Sometimes the new spells she makes even surprise the youkai.

But I'm still not so sure about the mushroom shochu.

"That's a rather avant-garde variety."

"How did it turn bad?"

"I created some weird new mushroom."

Reimu laughed at the ridiculous outcome to Marisa's tale.

"Sake isn't something you can just make with whatever you like wherever you like. It's something that must be made as an offering to the gods, so it must be pleasing to them. The number one rule is that if there are no gods enshrined at wherever the distillery is, then the sake won't turn out well, and the rules only get more technical from there..."

Reimu was slowly changing the subject from theology to biology. The gods prefer to brew food with sugar. Things like fruits which are naturally full of sugar are easy to turn into alcohol. With luck, all that's necessary is to crush it and leave it sit. In the case of fruits that grow on trees like pears and grapes, you can tell that it has fermented when the smell changes. You may have seen animals or bees gather around overripe fruit that has fallen on the ground. That is because the smell of fermentation attracts them.

However, in the case of rice and other grains where the sugar content is low, it's necessary to change the starch into sugar through fermentation. Even though it's not the same fermentation that turns it into alcohol, it is a necessary step. As the starch dissolves, that creates a sugar-rich substance called mold. Once the mold has been prepared, the process is the same as with fruit and is left to the gods.

The main difference between rice alcohol and fruit alcohol is that it is nearly impossible to make rice alcohol naturally ferment on its own. The more time and effort put into it, the better the end result will be. There is also another kind of alcohol made in a way similar to rice alcohol but with wheat called "beer," but that is yet another case.

When I started making sake, I studied the process on my own but most of what I found out, I had already heard from Reimu. She knows all about it because she has been distilling it at her shrine to this very day.

"So in short, to make alcohol, you need sugar. I doubt this weird mushroom of yours contains any, so even making a little bit might be difficult."

"Well, aren't we Ms. Know-it-all? Maybe you shoulda used your brain power to learn how to be a better shrine maiden instead." Marisa said, but I couldn't let that go because I knew that making sake was truly part of her job.

"No, having thorough knowledge about how to make sake is very important for a shrine maiden. That's because they need sake to be able to communicate with the gods. A long time ago, brewing sake was one of their jobs, although I'm not so sure about now..."

I took an indirect glance at Reimu. If she really was making sake at her shrine now, I expected her to show some kind of reaction, but my plan did not work. She continued to speak.

"Well, since your house is in the Forest of Magic, Marisa, something else just might be fermenting there. I'm not so sure about Kourindou though..."

Reimu's eyes passed around the room. I realize it's a little cluttered, but far from unsanitary.

"So you're saying that there aren't any gods here that could brew sake?"

Reimu looked around the inside of the store. The shikigami from the outside world, the tengu's camera, the ghost lamp...[6] After a single course, Reimu said this:

"The gods are already brewing too many things in here."

The mushrooms were cooking, their fragrance permeating the air.

As some time had passed since Reimu began her lecture on alcohol, it was already dark outside, and the reddened mountain could only be seen as a black shadow. It was now time for Kushi-no-kami, the alcohol-loving youkai, and ourselves to drink the night away.

The air was filled with spores from the lightly-salted mushrooms due to the fire. We began to drink accompanied by just this scent. Reimu and Marisa began to squabble over the mushrooms, but it was a light-hearted act. As for myself, I drank while eating, filling my mouth with mushrooms while imagining the day when my own sake would be ready.

As the fermentation process continues, at what point does it become sake? I had actually already ventured a guess.

"Oh, Reimu. I wouldn't eat those kakishimejis. They're slightly poisonous, and you'll end up in bed for a while."

"Don't worry, they're clean."

As Reimu pondered it herself, Marisa added, "If ya do end up in bed, it'll be fine. I'll take care o' da shrine for ya." Upon hearing that, she tossed the mushroom still in her chopsticks out the window.

The fact is that there isn't anyone who knows more about the mushrooms that grow in the Forest of Magic than Marisa. There are other, edible mushrooms that look very similar to kakishimejis. Due to the low reach of the sunlight and high temperatures in the forest, mushrooms thrive where few other things can.

I took a mushroom that looked like a jounenbou[7], put it in my mouth and began to chew. The sensation of the mushroom flooded my throat and nose though the power of the sake, filling me with an indescribably pleasant experience.

When does sake become sake?

I believe it is the very moment when it is joined with delicious food in the mouth. Until then, sake it might not be too much to say that it is just another liquid. The sake made by the gods is something no human could ever do. Is it sake, or vinegar, or something else entirely? Literally only the gods know.

And the sake from the god of sake naturally chooses who drinks it. And to pay respects to Kushi-no-kami, one must become drunk. Drinking a lot and becoming very drunk is important.

How much a human or youkai enjoys luxuries such as alcohol, tobacco, coffee and tea is a good indicator of their character. It is easy to tell their sensitivity and how broad-minded they are through these luxuries. Tengu, oni, kappa, and other strong youkai are also strong to alcohol. Vampires don't drink tea merely because it resembles the color of blood. It is all simply because a youkai that enjoys luxuries becomes strong.

"Whazza matter? You're not movin' your chopsticks at all. Is the poison from the younenbo gettin' to ya?", said Marisa.

"What was that? What's a younenbo?"

"That's whatcha ate just now, Kourin. Looked like a jounenbo, dinnit? Though it's obviously a different size, it's called a younenbo because it's like a youkai jounenbo."

I started to feel uneasy.

"They only grow in the Forest of Magic, but they got a nice smell and a good and rich flavor. And of course..."

Of course, it's fine to eat them. If it weren't meant to be eaten, it wouldn't have been on the grill. I was praying not to the gods, but to Marisa.

"Of course, they're hallucinogenic. But the effects aren't too bad so you'll be fine."

That's when I decided to cancel the evening feast and chase the two out. They said they had already eaten their fill, so they left without a fuss.

Even if it tastes fine to her, the problem is that she fed a poisonous mushroom to someone else. While Marisa might be used to living there, but a normal human can't withstand the forest miasma for long periods of time. Yet mushrooms still grow there. I wish she would just gather safer mushrooms...

But there was still one more question remaining, that being does Reimu actually make sake at her shrine. Whether because of my bragging about brewing my own sake or being too nervous about Marisa's mushrooms, I was hesitant to ask her directly, so the answer to that question will remain unknown. 

"Ah! There goes two in a row!"

"Yeah, just one more to make ten."

The excited voices of the two rang out inside the darkened shop. Soon it'll be midnight, a time when crying children had long quieted down,[1] but neither Reimu nor Marisa had done so.

The two of them had taken up occupancy in my store and turned off all the lights. I, unable to read a book or write in my journal, moved over to where they were, relying on the little bit of moonlight coming in from the window.

"Really, I don't know what to do with you two. Haven't you had enough? These so-called 'meteor showers' aren't exactly rare, you know"

"What are you talking about? You said it yourself, didn't you? 'Tonight the shooting stars will be amazing', 'I'm sure more than a hundred will fall.'"

"I really do think about a hundred will fall, but you don't intend to watch all of them do you?"

"You bet. I even got over a hundred wishes ready to go."

--Noon inside Kourindou.

The day when both Reimu and Marisa came to appreciate meteor showers.

I had placed a mysterious, newly acquired item on top of my desk, gazing at it. I say it was a newly acquired item, but the item itself was old and a bit dirty. The parts made of metal had spots of rust here and there as well.

That item was made up of a ball the size of a large, round watermelon and four legs supporting it. The ball was made of metal, but it had a very odd form. There were a number of thin rings fashioned from metal connected together that looked like they were used for measurement; they formed a sphere that air could easily pass through, like a throwing ball made out of bamboo. Furthermore each of the metal rings could rotate freely while the legs kept everything else in place.

Unfortunately, a few of the metal rings had rusted, and didn't turn very smoothly. It wouldn't make for suitable merchandise in this condition, so I had thought I'd somehow try to fix it myself.

"What's with this weird hollow globe?"

"This isn't a globe, Marisa. And when did you come in?"

"I thought maybe a hole had opened up in the Earth."

Marisa asked if it wasn't a globe then just what was it?

A globe is a model of the Earth. The humans living in Gensokyo don't know much about the planet they live on. That is because Gensokyo is in a small area of the mountains in a small part of Japan, which is itself a small part of the world, and it's not a place one can easily leave.

That said, it's not like outside information or tools aren't able to find their way in. A globe is one of the various tools that have washed in from the outside world, and so we've been able to learn about the Earth we live on. Speaking strictly, while they understand "knowledge" down to the smallest places here, the human residents of Gensokyo and the land they live in isn't quite connected with the knowledge of the Earth. For example, if you were to say here that a hole opened up in the Earth, they would easily believe you.

Still, though this tool looks like a globe it is certainly not. It is a tool to measure objects that though are always close to Gensokyo, we still don't know much about, the same as the Earth.

"This is a tool called an 'armillary sphere'[2]. If a globe is a tool used to provide information about the Earth, an armillary sphere is used to provide information about space."

While an armillary sphere is an unusually complicated tool, all it is used for is to measure the position of the stars.

However, there's a reason for this complexity. Though it appears that the stars are just floating in the sky, correctly measuring their position is difficult. It's not something you can measure absolutely, like how the ground you see from far away has mountains and forests giving varying degrees of height. While lines can be drawn between stars, and there are many fundamental stars that don't move and are simpler to calculate, that is still mere speculation. Their positions are unreachable, and observing stars that exist apart from the fundamental ones has long troubled many astronomers. In order to resolve that problem, the armillary sphere couldn't have been made without being complicated.

"So how d'ya use this thing?"

"Well that's what I'm investigating now."

"Ah, so ya don't know either? Well yeah, that's how it always is."

I felt she was making a fool of me, but it was true, so I couldn't deny it.

"Well, I imagine this is how you'd use it. While looking at a star through this tube in the middle, you match up the rotating sphere with the star, and take a reading from the scale or something written here. Hmm?"

I just realized that there were strange characters written on this object. What I thought was 'a scale or something' wasn't a simple numbered system. There's a possibility that these strange characters broaden the usefulness of the armillary sphere.

"What? Is somethin' on that ring?"

"Mm-hmm, there certainly is. I thought for sure that this was a tool from the outside world but
 the characters written here could overturn that theory.

"Where, where? Can I see? Hmm
 Can't read it."

"Well, that was fast."

The strange characters written on the armillary sphere were the names of the constellations.

"Written here is Yuki-nyuudou constellation, Kaenba constellation, Bashou-no-sei constellation... They appear to be the names of constellations to me."

"What's with that? They must be some crazy constellations, aren't they?"

"There's more to the problem than that. I haven't heard of these constellations either. Well, it might just be nothing more than a list of ridiculous constellation names. That would be strange in and of itself, but even if that were the case, these constellation names"

Te-no-me constellation, Tsurube-otoshi constellation, Great Tengu constellation 

"But aren't these all the names of youkai?"

The constellations we know, and this probably applies not only to the humans of Gensokyo, but the humans from the outside world too, mostly came from the continent. They have a long history, being made before Gensokyo became separated from the outside world.

Furthermore, there are still some constellations originally from ancient Japan, but few remain now. The Japanese ones were simply stars themselves rather than the interconnecting lines between them, and were given names and worshipped. Well, at least that's what I've always thought, but after looking at this armillary sphere I'll probably have to rethink my assessment. It's hard to think that constellations with the names of youkai would have come over from the continent. If Japan named this many constellations, it wouldn't be strange to think that Japanese astronomy has advanced considerably

"However, all of them are youkai names. If this was the work of Japanese astronomy they should have used more names from gods or heroes. If you think of it that way, rather than Japanese astronomy, it is possible that this armillary sphere is not a tool of the outside world but instead..."

This is probably a youkai armillary sphere. Youkai have been living for thousands of years, so it wouldn't be strange if they had their own astronomical knowledge. The youkai have many things that can put human technology to shame. They must have created their own system of astronomy as well instead of using the humans'. It's possible to think that the astronomy used by humans is in fact a field of study thought up by youkai.

Additionally, it is said that over a thousand years in the past youkai travelled to the moon. At that time humans wouldn't have yet known the meaning of the moon or stars. For that reason alone youkai astronomy must be excellent.

The moon is an important heavenly body for youkai, holding festivals on days when the moon is full and calming down during the new moon. It's easy to imagine that youkai study of the moon has greatly advanced.

However, the youkai names of constellations on this armillary sphere suggest that not only is their study of the moon very extensive, but of the stars as well.

For example, the Milky Way is called the Sake Way, and there the sake of oni flows to Earth. Close to that, the extremely bright Orion's Belt is called by youkai the Ibuki-douji constellation and indicates the Ibuki-douji's three powers of harmony, finite, and infinite.[5]

Because of the planets' brightness and inconsistent movement, they are called tengu stars. They move here and there and can be read as an existence that disrupts the orbits of other youkai.[6]

Comets are also recorded within the youkai constellations. Even the comets' cycles have been researched. Since youkai can live for a long time, you can say it's easier for them to observe than humans. Comets are called detested or condemned stars because they are apparently bad omens that threaten youkai society.

The one written with the largest characters is the Tenryuu constellation. This is the so-called Big Dipper. Tenryuu always stares at one point, and looks as if it might take flight at any time. The star at the point is Polaris, the north star.

In youkai constellations, Polaris is the unmoving star. Basically, it is the face of the unmoving lord of night, Fudou Myouou[7], an embodiment of Dainichi Nyorai. Though it goes without saying, Dainichi Nyorai[8] is an avatar of the sun that renders youkai powers ineffective. In the night world he is said to become Polaris and consume youkai power in order to prevent their festivals from getting out of hand. It is said that Tenryuu is plotting to eat Acala to control the sky day and night. According to the records, it is prophesied that after a few thousand years Tenryuu will move, and then youkai society will also undergo a great metamorphosis. Though it's said not to happen for thousands of years, youkai foresight is incomparable to humans', so this may be troubling.

"Anyway, givin' me a complete run-down of how it works is just going to be a waste of time, but I got somethin' I wanna ask ya. I know ya can find the position of the stars and the youkai constellations with this thing, but what's that? 'Master of the night sky'...?"

"The master of the night sky? Isn't that the moon? I guess that lets you measure the position of the moon, too."

The moon is the heavenly body important to the youkai, too. So the master of the night sky would have to be the moon.

"Nah, it's not the moon"

"Is there some other heavenly body worthy of being called 'Master?'"

"Those, the stars that stand out the most, the ones that fall down and disappear in a flash."

"In an flash... Do you mean shooting stars?"

"Yeah, that's it. They're my favorite out of all the stars. They grant yer wishes, too."

Ah, I see. Shooting stars.

Liking flashy things is very Marisa-like. But that is different, those aren't celestial bodies.

"Shooting stars aren't stars, you know."

"It's a shooting star, right? Ain't it a star?"

"Shooting stars are scales from Tenryuu, the dragon who flies through the heavens, that sparkle when they fall off. So this tool can't find their position."

"Hmm... Well, I guess it's because they move, huh? I didn't think it'd be able to measure that, but it's still a shame."

"Why is it a shame?"

"If ya knew what time they fell ya could have as many wishes granted as ya wanted. If ya got enough free time to study other stars, you should study shootin' stars instead."

"It's not like they were studying them because they had free time. But it's true you can't tell when shooting stars will fall. However, I know a way to see them for sure."

"What was that? Really? If ya know, tell me!"

"A few times a year on certain days, a large amount of shooting stars pour from the sky. If you look then, during a single night you can probably see ten, no, a hundred shooting stars."

So, I told Marisa one of the days that one could see a meteor shower, and on that day Marisa showed up early, brought along Reimu and we had a sort of meteor shower viewing party.

I wonder how much time had passed. They counted the fifteenth shooting star.

"This is amazin'! I really think we'll see a hundred of 'em tonight!"

"I'm starting to feel a bit tired."

After saying Reimu shouldn't be, Marisa leaned further outside the window to take in the astronomical show.

"Ah, the sixteenth one. Um, can-can-can," Reimu whispered.

"What's with that?"

"Saying a wish three times while a shooting star is visible is almost impossible isn't it? So I tried shortening my wish as much as possible."

"Ya cut off to much. What kind of wish was that anyway?"

"A wish about my incantation skill. What are you wishing for?"

"Ah, I wanna use stronger magic."

Both of them were excited about seeing a hundred shooting stars, but as the time between them continued to increase, they ended up losing count, becoming tired and falling asleep. And thus, the curtain had closed on the first shooting star wishing party.

Present day, four or five years later.

I stared at the memorable armillary sphere. From then on the shooting star wishing party became a yearly tradition, and we've already had quite a few of them.

When I think about it, I get the feeling that ever since the first shooting star wishing party, Marisa started to use star-related magic. Now when it comes to magic shooting stars, it's Marisa's number one specialty. Plus, every year she comes asking for the dates of the meteor showers and I hear she'll watch them by herself.

I wonder if Marisa was enchanted by Tenryuu, and I wonder if her wishes were granted.

The polar opposite of the static movements of the stars, shining brightly and immediately disappearing. Every now and then they'll become meteorites that reach the earth, and hold a power capable of dealing incredible damage. I wonder what people see in those kind of shooting stars.

"Oh, the youkai armillary sphere? That sure brings back memories. You're still holdin' on to it?"

"Yeah, I took it out for the first time in a while and was looking at it. But when did you come in?"

"You were just daydreamin' and didn't notice me."

"I was just reminiscing a bit about the past for... Huh!?"

"Whatizit?"

I was reading the names of the youkai constellations written on the armillary sphere. There are various youkai written down, but I found one that particularly caught my attention. It wasn't the name of a constellation, but it stood out the most.

"Never mind, it's nothing."

"It looked like it was."

And it was. The legend about youkai going to the moon over a thousand years ago isn't really a legend, I heard it from the mouth of one of the youkai herself. In other words that youkai is still living in Gensokyo. Still in Gensokyo and still controlling things from behind the scenes.

On this armillary sphere, that youkai's name was written. Furthermore, it was written as the creator's name.

"Let me see, let me see. Oh, I think I should be able to read this. 'Author, Yakumo... Yukari'? Ugh, really? She made this?"

Marisa was clearly annoyed, and strangely I agreed with her. The reason is that the place where those characters were written was in a place where a constellation name should be. Furthermore, it wasn't "maker" but "author".

"So that's it. This was made by that annoyin' youkai. Lame."

"At any rate she's smart and has a wealth of knowledge. If you were honest about it you probably would do well to learn from her."

"I don't wanna. Anyway, just because she made this doesn't really mean she's smart."

"You don't have nearly enough humility nor the ability to conjecture."

This doesn't mean that Yukari Yakumo is the youkai that made this armillary sphere. Most likely, she's the one who came with the names of the constellations written on the armillary sphere. In other words, I think she's the one that made the constellations.

Gensokyo, a place where these sorts of characters are still active. Until now I've underestimated the power youkai have to live very long lives, but thinking about how that relates to the sphere, I feel a slight chill. 

Around the middle of winter, the sliding door to the storage room rattles and opens with some difficulty. As very few things back there generate heat, snow often piles up on that area of the roof. The weight of the snow pushes down on the roof and thus the door. That may be one factor. Why I say "one" is because there is yet another important reason.

That being the spirit of the god of grains, having worked outside until the autumn harvest, rests in my storage room in preparation for planting in the coming spring. What was once a humble storage area becomes sacred ground, and one can feel the weight of its divinity holding back the door.

It's just as Lord Daikoku resides in the kitchen, not being confined to a single place, but anywhere food is prepared.

This means that gods aren't just found in objects, but in all sorts of places. However, they do not put any emotion or thought into this notion. There will always be somewhere or someplace for them to live. That is the main difference between gods and youkai, fairies, and ghosts.

"Oh, what's the matter? For someone who always makes a racket misbehaving in my store, you're awfully quiet."

Marisa, clothed in black from head to toe, staggered into the store, making her look even smaller and blacker.

"*Cough* Whaddya mean? I'm always quiet... Whew, finally made it."

"Did you catch a cold? You don't look so well. Would you like something warm to drink?"

There was just hot water boiling in the kettle on the "stove," but I poured her a cup.

"Ah, thanks." said Marisa as she sat on a chair.

"If you have a cold, maybe you should've stayed at home instead?"

"Maybe if this were a normal cold, sleepin' would help. *cough cough*"

"So is this an abnormal cold?"

I do not catch colds very often. It's that my body is resistant to illness, but there is a reason. There are very few diseases that can afflict both youkai and humans. Only humans can suffer from human illnesses, and only youkai can suffer from youkai illnesses. As an aside, most human illnesses are sicknesses of the body, while most youkai illnesses are those of the mind.

In the case of half-human, half-youkai like myself, they are resistant to both varieties. That's why I could allow Marisa into the store without worrying about contracting her illness.

"I don't even know if this is a cold or what... My whole body just feels heavy."

"I see. Unfortunately, while I'm not especially strong, I don't get sick easily. Even if you tell me what your symptoms are, I won't really know what your problem is."

"Yeah, I know. It's not like I came t'ya for a check-up or anythin',... man. I just got somethin' I wanted t'show ya."

Knock, knock.

"Are you here, Mr. Rinnosuke? *cough*"

"Oh, do you have a cold too?"

"I don't know if it's a cold, but it feels like my body doesn't want to move."

Upon saying that, she immediately headed straight for the interior of the shop, where there was already another patient asleep.

"Marisa is already sleeping in the back."

"Yes, I imagined she would be feeling ill."

"You're my second patient today. I don't mind because I don't catch colds easily. Maybe I should become a doctor too."

"...You won't make a profit out of it, even if you do."

I couldn't tell if she meant that there wouldn't be enough people who trusted me enough for that, or that the residents of Gensokyo rarely needed doctors, but I heard that about two years ago a rather skilled physician appeared and her practice is thriving, so I doubt Reimu meant the latter.

This skilled physician suddenly appeared in the bamboo forest and is said to treat both humans and youkai alike. If Reimu and Marisa's symptoms get out of hand, maybe it would be best to call her.

But at any rate, why did Reimu come here in such poor condition? I never told them I stocked medicine here, because I rarely do.

"*Cough cough* I came to look for something. I want an antique, so I thought Kourindou would be the best place to find one."

"You're just looking for an antique? Maybe you should have come when you were feeling better."

"That's not going to happen... If I don't find what I'm looking for, this is only going to get worse."

"So you seem to know the reason behind this strange cold."

Reimu told me how the majority of the people living in the human village had already come down with the same cold symptoms. While they call it a cold, the coughing isn't as bad, but the body feels lifeless and even walking is a chore. And this cold is highly contagious.

"*Cough* I'm looking for... something like a small pot... or similar antique. The older, the better."

"A pot? Are you giving up on being a shrine maiden and starting a new religion?"

"But the most important thing is that it must be something without a name. *cough cough*"

I had only a vague grasp on whatever Reimu was planning. For her to come all the way to my store while ill, and then ask for a nameless item... But that reminds me Marisa said she wanted to show me something, but since she's sleeping I suppose it can wait.

"So an antique, and one without a name... It's going to be rather poor quality. Let's see..."

"I thought something at the shrine might work too, but I can't tell what has or hasn't been named yet... *cough cough*"

She added, "Because the only one who can really do that is you, right?" That made me feel better, and with a slight air of pride I came back with Reimu's request.

"How about something like this? It's a plate that goes back 300 years from the current age. It was meant to be used, but the quality was so poor that it doesn't seem like it was used at all. Because of that, it wasn't named anything in particular."

"Hmmm, do you have anything a little older? Like, say, around 1200 years ago..."

Reimu said that having merely glanced at the plate. I had the feeling that age was the more important factor in her request.

"1200 years? I don't usually have something like that on hand."

"Kourindou is supposed to have everything, isn't it? I want something nameless that's as old as possible." She started to lie down as she complained. I would consider my shop to stock curios and antiques, but I don't think I ever mentioned having "everything."

But, with my air of pride unable to accept turning down her request, I went to go put away the dish with the other stock I did not want to sell and begin looking for something 1200 years old. When I opened the cold, heavy door to the storage room, I began to think of why Reimu needed such a thing.

"Reimu, I couldn't find anything exactly to your demands, but would something like this be acceptable?"

As I said that, I showed her a flat, triangular-shaped lump about as large as my hand.

"This is a fragment of a jar older than 1,000 years. It has no name."

Naturally, a mere fragment has no value as an antique, but as far as objects older than 1,000 years, this is her only option.

"However, this is no ordinary fragment. This was originally part of a pot with an interesting purpose, for sealing something within it. I'm sorry I couldn't find anything any older, but it's all I could find."

"*Cough cough* That should do just fine. I knew you had something, Mr. Rinnosuke."

She asked to borrow it for a moment, held it in one hand and a sacred tree branch in the other, and began to murmur. It looked as if she were performing a ritual. I was not expecting this to be her purpose in the least.

"...May the voice of the god Tomo no Yoshio be heard..."

It appeared she was actually doing something a shrine maiden would do, for once. Perhaps it has something to do with the unusual colds. She finished her simple ritual by placing seals on the fragment, and sighed.

"Whew, now I feel much more relieved. If I take this around the village, that should cure everyone's illnesses."

"Oh. Well, isn't that nice? But I still have absolutely no idea what's been going on. Can you give me some details?"

I wondered if Reimu was already feeling better, as after she finished her mysterious rite and seemed more like her normal self, she began explaining the situation.

"First of all, this is a contagious disease." she began. Similar to a vicious cold, it easily passes between people, and simply being close to someone infected with it will lead to catching it. Endemics of these unexplained illnesses seem to happen once every several years.

It is impossible to limit the spread of contagious diseases by oneself. To completely suppress it, it is necessary to seal the curse god that caused it into something.

According to Reimu, the cause of this disease's prevalence is the curse god associated with it running rampant. By finding out which god is doing it, sealing it, and then showing it to those who have been afflicted with the disease, this will give them the belief that they have been cured.

"Gods that need to gather faith choosing to do so in this temporary manner are called 'contagious gods.' In this case, to suppress the illness, we need to fool the god of this illness that it has collected faith, and in that way it will become a real curse god."

"Fool, you say? Fooling a god that has control over disease sounds disastrous."

"This time, I bestowed the role of curse god onto the god Tomo-no-Yoshio. He is a curse god that occasionally deals with plagues."

"That sounds pretty bad, but wasn't Tomo-no-Yoshio an actual person? If I remember, about twelve hundred years ago..."

"It'll be fine. While there was fear of plagues at first, and the grudge he bears does not seem to have lessened by much, Tomo-no-Yoshio seemed grateful to do any kind of dirty deed, and this time he was quick to say 'If you want to me to cure this disease, make me into a curse god or anything else.' I guess he's been bored lately, so I let him handle it."

I wonder if gods and shrine maidens always have such friendly conversations, but it's a world that only shrine maidens know, being mouthpieces for the gods.

"I wanted something without a name because objects with names already have another god residing in them. Nameless items that are extremely old are the ideal vessels."

"I see now. So you should be able to cure everyone's illness with that? You said they were gathering belief temporarily, so how does curing the illness turn them into a god?"

"Divine spirits of illnesses of the past that no one fears any longer lack the power to do anything. You haven't heard of anyone worshiping Lord Tomo-no-Yoshio as a normal god, right? He didn't even have a shrine built for him. Now that he's sealed in this fragment, I'll ultimately throw him away at Muenzuka."

"The way you're saying that, like gods are disposable, is rather cruel."

"That's the fate of these contagious gods. Just forgetting about them is the best thing for us humans. But still, Lord Tomo-no-Yoshio was supposed to have been already sealed, so why did he seem bored?"

"Hey, I'm feelin' pretty good now." Sitting up in bed, Marisa wedged herself into our conversation.

"I mighta looked like I was sleepin' but I heard it. What Reimu was talkin' about is to cure the disease from one's will?"

"I didn't say that. Cure the disease from a god, I said."

Saying "Well, that's what it sounded like t'me." she reached into her hat and took out a small, old plate.

"I thought I'd come by and give ya a look at this today, Kourin. But the thing is, ever since I picked it up, I've been feelin' pretty bad."

"That's another old plate. It seems to have quite a history..."

"I took it 'cause I thought it'd be worth somethin', but all of a sudden I felt horrible for some reason. I wanted to consult you about it in a double meaning."

"Hmm, it doesn't look like it was given a name. Unfortunately, I doubt it's worth a great deal, but what I can say for sure is that it's rare to see something so old."

Reimu inspected the plate and a curious expression appeared on her face.

"Um, where exactly did you find this plate?"

"Funny thing, when I first found it, it had these dirty seals all over it, so I thought I'd clean it up. That's when I started feelin' sick."

I heard the sound of snow falling off the roof. How long had passed since Reimu began lecturing Marisa? I get the feeling she had already repeated herself three times by now.

"You know, if you see something that's been sealed, don't take them off! You found that plate at Muenzuka, didn't you? You had no idea what was sealed inside anyway!"

"How's yer average human s'pposed t'know a contagious god was sealed 'nside? Why'ja throw somethin' like that out anyway?"

"It's important to put it somewhere away from the village until the contagious god has lost all its faith! The reason why everyone is sick is because of you going to Muenzuka and deliberately removing the seal. You realize that, right? Now I know why Lord Tomo-no-Yoshio seemed so bored. It was because of you breaking the seal."

"Keep your voice down, will ya? I'm still tryin' t'get over a cold."

"Thanks to your foolish actions, now I'm going to have to go around to every house in the village, one by one."

The image of Reimu visiting each house trying gather faith for the curse god to cure the epidemic was rather amusing, but I was still skeptical of whether that would truly work. If sealing a curse god is how illnesses are cured, I have the feeling that doesn't explain the reason why I don't fall ill easily, nor why youkai and humans are susceptible to different sicknesses.

The physician that appeared in the bamboo forest doesn't need to commune with the gods to heal disease, but rather uses more advanced procedures. Using utensils no one has seen before, taking pictures of the inside of the body, removing the affected area with no pain, even exchanging useless parts of the body for working replacements.

However, I still hold some doubt as I have not seen these for myself, but if they are true, then the bamboo forest physician is likely an intellectual that started their practice here after lamenting over the condition of medical care in Gensokyo. She may even be from the outside world. 

The rapidly-falling cherry blossom petals covered the land in white replacing the snow that had just melted. Though I had not checked the calendar in a while, I could surmise a guess just by looking outside that either April was about to end or May had already started. I thought the cherry blossoms bloomed a little late this year, but a few days' difference is no cause for alarm. It just seemed to me that there were fewer warmer days this winter. Cherry blossom buds only appear on warmer days, for on colder days the temperature makes them close up tight. If there are fewer warmer days, then that will delay when the blossoms bloom.

Incidentally, in the few records left behind after Gensokyo's formation, it is written that in Gensokyo over one hundred years ago, the beginning of March would be determined by the blooming of the cherry blossoms. As it presently indicates a more suitable time frame, around the end of April or the beginning of May, when you consider that, March comes much earlier. So when compared to the winter temperatures from back then, and the cherry blossoms blooming almost two months later, they were likely much warmer than it is now.

But of course, that's not the case at all. Winter always has been and always will be cold. There is another reason for the cherry blossoms signaling the beginning of March.

"...Now if it were me, I'd shoot down every last petal."

"What? If it were me, I'd dodge them all."

"But they fall so slow. That's nothin' special."

"What are you talking about? Slower bullets are harder to avoid than fast ones."

For some reason, Reimu and Marisa were having a bitter, pointless argument, but I couldn't hold it against them. They had planned on having a flower-viewing party today, but it was canceled. And to make matters worse, the blossoms had almost completely fallen off, and already bits of green could be seen on the trees. Today might have been their last chance.

With their wish of this send-off party to their precious petals dashed by the heartless rain, they now wait bored inside the shop. They were so excited for their party, but now they were likely worried if the rain would strip the remaining petals from the trees.

"And besides, the petals are already so limp. You can't be proud of such limp things as petals."

"Then I'll get the very first prize, even if it's given for the person who is proud of shooting petals."

"All right, you two. I think that's enough of this petty argument. After the cherry blossoms fall, you know that means summer is right around the corner. It's simply that this year it won't be the spring wind that takes them, but the spring rain. You shouldn't be spending endless hours bickering because of your current situation. Why don't you try thinking ahead a little more?"

"'Petty'? How rude. What we're doing is discussing new ways of interacting with the cherry blossoms. Isn't that thinking ahead?"

"We're so far ahead, we're practically in the future."

Although they say "far ahead," their "future" is a lot more recent. Like about what they should do today.

"We're so forward-thinking we never reflect on the past, but a little while earlier, Yukari said something like, 'It's a good thing the cherry blossoms in Gensokyo bloomed late this year.'"

"Hm? So what does that mean?"

"'Winter in the outside world suddenly became much shorter, so the cherry blossoms bloomed in the middle of March.' she said."

Reimu told me in an unusually lazy tone of voice which I took for her mimicking Yukari, although it was a poor imitation. If you take too many liberties in your exaggeration, no one will know who it's supposed to be.

"I... I see. So she mentioned something about the short winter in the outside world?"

"Since she got to see both the outside world's blossoms and Gensokyo's evening blossoms, she said, 'I get to enjoy seeing the cherry blossoms twice this year.'"

I don't know why she only saw Gensokyo's cherry blossoms in the evening, but even if the timing is different in the blooming of the trees in the outside world and Gensokyo, it should be no inconvenience to the youkai here.

"Ah, so that means the cherry blossoms in the outside world were at full bloom in March. It seems they had an exceptionally warm winter. But no matter. Since you two seem bored, let me tell you about something strange."

I took a glance at the window as I said this. The rain had lessened into a light drizzle, but the outside of the window was clearly wet. I wondered if the rain would wash away the petals stuck to the window until the end of my story.

"What's this 'something strange?'"

"Just a small detail. While the cherry blossoms blooming in March in the outside world is indeed early, a long time ago, the cherry trees blossomed in March as well, both in the outside world and Gensokyo."

"Blossomed in March? Isn't that more than a month early?"

"Who'd wanna have a party when it's so cold out?"

"No, I didn't mean that it actually was March. Simply that they blossomed in March."

"What's that? A Zen riddle?"

"It's the old calendar. There are almost no traces of it nowadays, but over 100 years ago, they used the lunisolar calendar. March in the old calendar would be around the end of April in the modern one. I was just saying that if you used the old calendar, the cherry blossoms would bloom in March."

"The old calendar? Ah, that."

"Hey, I sometimes wonder about this myself but, what is the old calendar? And why'd they change it for the new one?"

I prepared some salted tea with floating cherry blossom petals for them. I poured the hot water slowly, and even the floating blooms in the cup were also imbibed. While we can't enjoy relaxing under the trees today, there are still ways to enjoy the view of the blossoms.

"I never thought you would prepare such beautiful tea for us, Mr. Rinnosuke."

"So, what's this old calendar business about?"

"And why was it necessary to change to the new one?"

"The old calendar, or to be specific the lunisolar calendar, is based on the waxing and waning of the moon. One cycle, the time between new moons, taking 29 to 30 days, is counted as a month. And then twelve of these months make a year."

"Ah, so maybe that's why the word 'month' comes from the word 'moon.'"

"Precisely. When the change was made to the new calendar, that word remained unchanged. However, the amount of time is different. As a month now is around 30 or 31 days, it's about one day more than the old month. So that means a year in the old calendar is roughly 10 days shorter than a year in the new calendar."

"Missin' 10 days out of a year? That doesn't sound too bad to me."

"No, no, no. It is bad. Being short by even 10 days is very troublesome. After ten years, it will start snowing in Spring. After another ten years, Winter and Summer will have completely changed places."

"So it'll be a warm Winter, huh?"

"Wouldn't it be more hot than warm?"

"And just like that, the seasons and the months would continually shift. So they added a thirteenth month every three years."

"So that's why I see that word come up every now and then in the older books."

Marisa seemed to be waiting for the perfect time to drink her tea. I'm not sure what her idea of "perfect timing" is though. As for Reimu, she had already started on hers.

"Unfortunately, that is not the case. In years when they had a thirteenth month, it was never called 'the thirteenth month.' The reason is because when the seasons would become too out of place, they would simply add that extra month to the end of the current month, like when March would start to feel too much like February, both the real March and the extra month would both be called 'March.'"

"How does that make any sense? What a ridiculous system."

"Of course, they had some manner to clearly calculate when to add this extra month, but after a while, they were able to rely on their senses. Sense is the underlying aspect in all calculations."

"But doesn't havin' two of the same month make things complicated? Givin' it some kind of name'd make more sense."

"The second extra month was properly distinguished by the name 'intercalary month.' For example, the second March would be called 'intercalary March.' The reason why they changed to the new calendar was that even with the intercalary months, the seasons would rarely match up and it became too inconvenient. So the old lunisolar calendar was abandoned and the new solar calendar became more widespread in its place."

"Wow, the old calendar was so complicated, I wonder if it wasn't humans who came up with it, but youkai? Why didn't they use the calendar we have now from the very start?"

"Well, the lunisolar calendar is better suited for youkai. You'd immediately know on what dates the new and full moons occur. But as human technology advanced, the sun became the more dominant element over the moon."

"But aren't there quite a few youkai here in Gensokyo? Do we really need to use the new calendar here?"

"The reason why we use the new one here too is because it's the one they use in the outside world. That's it. We're already isolated enough, but using a different calendar would make matters worse. It's not as if the lunisolar calendar was created in Gensokyo."

"I guess you're right. Now that I think about it, it would be strange if the youkai suddenly decided to stop going by the moon and start using the sun instead."

"Indeed. They never wanted to have the change forced upon them, and I've heard that there are still some here who have not yet adapted. In fact, there is a unique lunisolar calendar made by the youkai of Gensokyo."

The two of them, their mood improved having forgotten their quarrel, listened intently to my story.

"The lunisolar calendar of youkai, the Youkai Lunisolar Calendar. It doesn't just go by the waxing and waning of the moon, but defines one month from the cycle of the color of moonlight and of changes of its perimeter. It is said that it is much easier to tell when natural phenomena will occur than using the calendars the humans devised. Not only seasons, but disasters like earthquakes and volcanic eruptions and when the bamboo flowers will bloom. Many kinds of cycles are included in this calendar. Just by knowing the date, you can also know how much longer it will be until the bamboo flowers bloom."

"That's pretty cool. If their calendar's got all that stuff, maybe we humans should use it too. Sounds a lot more useful, that's fer sure."

"However, there's a big problem with humans using the calendar. The length of their day is not as long as our days. In fact, the concept of 'day' doesn't even exist. Their smallest unit of measurement is a month. If you were to compare it to the current 'day,' the new moon would be like midnight and the full moon would be like noon. And it's considerably long, taking 60 of our years for one of their calendar cycles.[2] This might be fine for beings with such long lifespans as youkai, but for much more shorter-lived humans, that seems extremely inconvenient to me."

"Hmm, so since they hate the sun, they went with the moon. Guess they really do depend on it that much, but I ain't never heard'a any youkai usin' that calendar."

"Although they made it, very few actually used it. I heard that the youkai living on the mountain use it though... By the way, there's a month with the same purpose as the intercalary month in the Youkai Lunisolar Calendar as well. However, they don't call it the 'intercalary month,' but the more obvious 'thirteenth month.' And in years with this month, the power of youkai becomes exceptionally stronger. Because of these years where youkai become stronger, it seems that the number '13' is considered unlucky by humans in certain areas."

"Never heard'a that before. I know about 13-year cicadas though..."

"Yes, because I told you about that, but you're right. I myself haven't heard much about thirteen being an unlucky number around here."

That was all the information I had regarding the Youkai Lunisolar Calendar. Even if they asked me for more, it would be mere speculation, so I stood up to pour tea. Thinking that serving them more cherry blossom tea would remind them of the cherry blossoms outside and put them in a disagreeable mood yet again, I poured the usual green tea.

Since I had shared the extent of my knowledge on the matter, the conversation came to a standstill. But then, Reimu's voice broke the silence with a rather simple question.

"By the way, Mr. Rinnosuke, what does 'intercalary' mean exactly? I don't think that word comes up normally in most conversations..."

It's important not to take things for granted, but question even the smallest details. Human's growth is directly related to how much knowledge one has accumulated. The better you know the past, the better you know the present, and the better you know the future.

"'Intercalary', huh? Hmmm, let me think... the meaning of the character from the continent is 'not the genuine article.' Since the second March after the first one wasn't the real March, that's why it was called 'Intercalary March'. Since it's a character from the continent, they don't use the character in the Youkai Lunisolar Calendar. That's why it isn't used outside of the context of the lunisolar calendar, but how did it become associated with it in the first place? Originally, this country had no word that expressed the meaning of the word 'intercalary.'"

"Oh, I see."

"However, that character isn't pronounced 'uruu' in the continent. The reason why it's pronounced 'uruu' here is because... of a rather slipshod reason. When it came over from the continent, there were no words in the Japanese language that could properly express it, so no one knew how to read it. Then, someone noticed it looked like the character in 'uruou', meaning a number of things ranging from 'moist' or 'charming', so they called it 'uruou' as well. So 'Uruou March' would sound like 'Charming March'. They put no other thought into it. And then, since they felt that 'uruou' was too difficult to say, they shortened it to just 'uruu'. So as far as why it is pronounced like that, there was never any meaning in it from the start. And since this word rarely came up in conversations, that's the whole origin story."

"So it looked like the character for 'uruou' and then they shortened it to 'uruu' because it was too hard to say? That really is lazy. Are you okay with that, Mr. Rinnosuke? I thought you were a lot more picky about names."

"Words are things that stand on their own, and I have no business meddling in their origins. And besides, I rather like the sound of it. Doesn't saying 'charming year' or 'charming month' sound a great deal more pleasant than 'not-the-actual month'?"

"Well, because it's the 'charming month,' it seems unnecessary for it to be raining while the cherry blossoms are blooming as well... But look! The rain stopped!"

The light from the sun, which had come out at some point, could be seen outside the window, seeping in through gaps in the clouds. Having given up their flower-viewing party for lost, the two were now in high spirits. I was unsure how many flowers remained to be viewed, but I had the feeling they would take any opportunity to have a party merely for the sake of it.

"Won't you join us tonight too, Mr. Rinnosuke? This might be the last time we have a flower-viewing party this year, and the cherry blossoms are so pretty when they're shining with water."

"I say this every time, but I don't like outdoor parties."

"C'mon, whaddya talkin' about? We listened to yer borin' stories, so the least ya kin do to make it up is join us."

Despite their irrational request, I just happened to be in the mood to see the cherry blossoms that evening. I said it would be worth seeing the flowers that had not been washed away by the rain once. Imagining a beautiful world of flowers moist with rain, gracefully falling under the light of the charming moon, made me want to drink sake. 

Mountains will have mountain gods and rivers will have river gods. Gods reside in everything on the Earth. This book that you have in your hand, or a semiconductor that you may have picked up is no exception.

But certain special gods have shrines dedicated to their worship. What's the difference between these gods and the other gods? There's nothing in particular, it's just a matter of a god being sufficiently popular or not.

Gods that provide blessings to humans are popular. There are also gods that will spread curses when not worshiped, but by worshiping them one can escape misfortune, so they have popularity in a different sense.

Shrines exist for such gods. A shrine's existence is thus decided by popularity, which is entirely up to humans, but for gods, it doesn't matter to them in the least.

The reason for this is that a god's power is determined by the amount of faith humans have in them. For example: O-inari san and Tenjin sama, who are very popular amongst people, have succeed in gaining far greater power than they used to have when they were referred to as Uka-no-Mitama no kami or Sugawara no Michizane due to the great number of shrines built in their honor.

Conversely, as for what happens when people lose faith in gods, they will lose their powers and once there is nobody who remembers them, they disappear from existence. A god must work hard in gathering faith, since their very existence is at stake.

"Why does our shrine have so many youkai?"

"You probably need more visitors. Otherwise the gods won't have enough power to ward them off."

"But if there are youkai in the first place, no one will come. There's nothing that can be done about it."

"True, it appears to be a vicious cycle."

I think the shrine maiden Reimu, who doesn't do her job and comes to relax here all the time, is one of the problems. In the past, the shrine didn't have so few visitors and youkai never approached it. I must say that the main cause is the current shrine maiden, Reimu.

I suppose it's beginning to bother her, as she said she's here to discuss ways to recollect faith.

"Well, even if we lose too much faith, it won't change my job of exterminating youkai, so it might not be a bad thing after all."

"You're mistaken, Reimu. A shrine losing faith can be fatal."

"I guess you're right, since I wouldn't get any offerings."

"No, no. It's not as simple as that. Saying that a god loses faith is like saying a god loses power. So if your shrine gets taken over by an evil spirit, it'll be harder to drive it out."

"Well, if you say so... But what should I do?"

"You can expel the youkai from the shrine, as a last resort."

"Why would you start with the last resort? Oh, whatever. What other options are there?"

"One option is to rely on a new god. Give up on your current god and get a popular god to come to your shrine, along with its faith. When few are aware of your god's name, much less its blessings, it's no wonder you're losing faith like this."

"Enshrine another god? Am I allowed to do that?"

"There shouldn't be a problem. A Japanese god is known as a "Bunrei," meaning "divisible spirit." Even if you split one into an endless number of parts, its power won't be affected. You can use that to bring another god's power directly to your shrine. The process of gaining a divisible spirit is called "Kanjou" and it's something that goes on frequently in the outside world."

"Hmm, a new god. That should be a nice change of pace and it might be fun. Maybe if I get a god of sake to come, it might be easier to get faith since its blessings are so obvious."

"If that's what you want, it might be good to get gods like Sengen-sama[1], otherwise called Konohana-Sakuya Hime no mikoto. She is usually a goddess of mountains but she is one of sake as well. She's said to be a very beautiful goddess and is very popular. To make it easier to notice, you might want to change the name of your shrine to Hakurei Sengen Shrine."

"Mmm, I'm not really interested in changing the name..."

"Even if the god you worship changes, it'll have no meaning if people don't notice it. So normally names change with such events."

Ring-a-ling...

"Hey. It's the rainy season but it's not rainin' today. Since it's so sunny, maybe we should start prayin' for rain."

"I have no idea what you're talking about, Marisa. As usual."

"What are ya talkin' about when it's not rainin'?"

"We were having a very important discussion about the shrine."

"'Bout the shrine? Did anything happen to'dat youkai shrine o'yours, Reimu?"

The shrine being called 'that youkai shrine' itself is the problem.

"Well, there are too few visitors. And the only offerings I get are the leaves that the tanuki put into the box..."

"Oh, izzat it? Don't worry 'bout it. Most o'dose leaves are from me anyway."

"That's not she's worried about. Reimu's problem isn't foolish pranks, but the fact that her shrine is losing faith because there are no visitors."

"Ya don't need the help of gods t'kill youkai... So wait, what good is the shrine then?"

Although I find repeating myself to be tiring, I once again explained the connection between the lack of faith and gods, as well as shrines.

"I gotcha. Yeah, that'd definitely be a pain if yer shrine got taken over by some youkai. But there's a real easy way to get more people t'come if ya wanna know."

"What's that?"

"Have a huge festival, and call it, like, the Hakurei Shrine Reitaisai. If ya do somethin' like that, I'm sure you'd get everyone who loves festivals, right? And if ya still need more people, just have 'em every week. What the shrine is missin' is something that'll pull more people to it. If ya keep havin' dinky little parties all the time, no one's gonna bother comin' all that way."

What Marisa says is true. Humans won't worship gods that won't benefit them. If the lives of people become wealthier, then a shrine will not be needed. In that case, events like that might be needed to draw interest.

"Even if I do arrange a festival, I just know the only ones that will show up will be youkai. If there are youkai around, humans won't come."

"That's true, yeah. Youkai love pretty much anythin' where they can cause a racket."

"That's why we were talking about having a kanjou."

"Huh? Kanjou? Whuzzat?"

We explained to Marisa that a kanjou is the process of changing the god of worship at a shrine.

"If ya do that, what'll happen to the god you have now?"

"At first, I was going to worship them at the same time."

"Whaddya mean by at first?"

"I mean it'll vanish naturally if it's forgotten."

"What? It'll vanish!?"

The summer scenery as seen from the window began to darken. There was still plenty of time until the evening, so I guess rain is underway. A unique ability of the rainy season, it seems.

"The god in your shrine will vanish? B-But... Reimu, are ya okay with that?"

"If the shrine itself will vanish if I do nothing, then I guess I have no other choice."

"By the way, who was the god of the Hakurei shrine? An evil spirit? Or maybe not."

"There really aren't many records left that say. Although we did get taken over by an evil spirit in the past..."

If even the god's own shrine maiden can't remember its name, it's not surprising that its losing faith.

But I guess there's no helping it. In Gensokyo, gods exist everywhere in nature. A place like a shrine isn't necessary, since one can ask for a god's favor anywhere.

In Gensokyo, it is said that the only shrine is the Hakurei Shrine.[2] Thus it is a unique place and many simply refer to it as "the shrine". Since there are no other shrines with which to compare it, it can easily be forgotten that a god is being enshrined there.

As expected, the people of Gensokyo no longer see the value of shrines.

"Well, the future of the shrine is something for you to decide. But there is one thing I can say. The Hakurei Shrine plays an important role in supporting the border. Regardless of who the god is, that won't change."

"Well, the worst part is not knowing the blessings of the shrine."

"Is there even a blessin' at all? I didn't feel any different after those offerin's."

"That's because you won't be blessed by offering leaves. I guess we should worship a god with a blessing. In that case it might be Konohana-Sakuya Hime no mikoto then."

Even if there are blessings of sake, I think the only people that'll be happy about it will be the people making the sake. There are only a handful of those people.

"By the way, why do you get blessings from gods you worship? Doesn't that make gods no different from the youkai that loiter at the shrine?"

The store had become dark. It seemed to be raining outside. Marisa was uneasy, worried about the weather, but Reimu was thinking of nothing else but her question.

"You're a shrine maiden, but lack far too much knowledge. You don't even train because you dislike it. If you won't stop drinking sake all the time and don't train more often, you won't be able to save your shrine."

"Well, I'm studying now, aren't I?"

"I suppose, but I'll tell you why you get blessings when you worship divine spirits."

"Sure, sure, go on."

"They say everything has a divine spirit within it, but strictly speaking, things without names are divine spirits themselves. These objects are then named based on the one of the powers of the spirit."

"Now that you mention it, I think I've heard about that before."

"Maybe I have told you before. I think it was about the petrified bone?[3] Anyway, a divine spirit is different from a youkai in that it has two personalities."

"Since youkai are simple and only have one personality, that makes them twice as different."

"The two personalities are the 'Nigi' and the 'Ara.' The 'Nigi' is the side that's kind to humans and is the one called the blessing."

"What? Its personality is the blessing?"

"I told you that divine spirits are the origin of all, right? The divine spirit is the personality of an object. Thus, the emotions of an object are directly related to its power and become visible in matter. If a god of sake gained power, the sake would naturally become better. Also, the 'Nigi' is further divided into two parts called the 'Saki' and the 'Kushi.' The 'Saki' provides fulfillment to the soul and the 'Kushi' provides knowledge. If I were to use the god of sake as an example again, the 'Saki' improves the fragrance and taste to the sake while the 'Kushi' will provide the skills to make sake."

"
'Nigi,' 'Saki,' 'Kushi'... they're all good, aren't they? Maybe I should seriously have a kanjou for Konohana-no-Sakuyabime."

"Well, gods other than Konohana-no-Sakuyabime have personalities that are blessings too. But you mustn't forget their other personality. The 'Ara.'
"

"Oh dear."

"The 'Ara' is the wrath of the divine spirits and is the part that manifests itself as disaster and misfortune. Using the god of sake as an example, the sake will not only taste bad but can turn into poison. Worse yet, you may never be able to make sake in the same place ever again."

"I don't like the sound of that. A lesson not to anger the gods, I guess. Do gods always have those two personalities?"

"There may be some differences, but they will always be there."

"Isn't there a god with only the gentle side?"

"Divine spirits, that is to say all things in Gensokyo, have both a good side and a bad side. But the 'Ara' personality isn't always bad."

"But it turns sake bad, right?"

"Well, the 'Ara' is the true power of the divine spirits. By worshiping the 'Ara', the worshipers will be given protection. For example, it can ward off enemies that try to interrupt the sake manufacturing process. To put it simply, blessings are what comes from calming the 'Ara' and thanking the 'Nigi' to increase a god's power."

"Hmm. People say that a dependable deity is one that goes around granting everyone's personal requests, but I guess that's not it at all. What you're saying is that the truth is that a god's increase in power is connected to its blessings."

"If you make the gods happy, people will receive blessings. It's different from making people happy by defeating youkai."

"Well, then the shrine doesn't have to worry about that, then."

The window showed that it was completely dark and raining outside, as it should be in this season. Reimu and Marisa decided to stay for dinner.

Although it was not my intention, since we talked about sake so much, we decided to drink many different types of sake today.

"Hmmm, maybe this sake is a blessing from Lady Sengen, too."

"Then this sake must be one too!"

"The two of you have had too much to drink."

"To Lady Sengen! Cheers!"

The purpose of a god isn't necessarily to hear the requests by the humans who built it. All the gods need to do is listen and they gather faith. A very convenient situation. That's why people can give their puny offerings and ask of anything they like of them. These divine spirits are just another kind of youkai that enjoy the relaxing life in Gensokyo. 

Just as one wonders if the towering summer cumulonimbus clouds would open up with a pouring rain shower, they steal away all of the day's muggy warmth. Moonlight filtered in the window, obscured by rain.

Reimu and Marisa had been at the store all day, but as a sudden evening shower prevented them from going home, they remained for dinner.

"Yukari's been acting odd lately. *smack*"

"Ya say that like she wasn't odd t'begin with. *chomp*"

"Why don't you two try swallowing what's in your mouth before you start talking?"

I'd been planning on eating alone tonight, so the menu was meager. I don't eat meals often in the first place. Dinner for me is really just sake with a side of pickled vegetables. A half-youkai like myself doesn't really need to eat much to live; it's more for pleasure. If the sake is delicious, that's enough to last me through the night.

But that won't do for Reimu and Marisa; if they don't eat regularly, they'll get weak and eventually collapse due to lack of stamina. A lot of foods high in salt content go well with sake and make good snacks. Some rice and something salty would probably perk them right back up for a while.

"Yukari has been acting odd? Do you mean that youkai, Yakumo Yukari?"

I really don't like her. I make my living by collecting things from the outside world, so I really do owe her a lot, since she keeps Gensokyo and the outside world separate, but whenever she's around it feels like something's looking right through me, and I can't think straight.

"Yukari's actually been helping me train lately. It's really weird."[1]

"Helping you train...? A youkai? That's unusual for a youkai to train a youkai hunter... It seems like she's plotting something. What are you going to do about it, Reimu?"

"It doesn't matter if she's up to something, since I've been training."

"Well, if you say so..."

No matter how you look at it, that just means you're doing exactly what Yukari wants you to do.

Gensokyo is the place it is because of Yukari's ability to control borders. Her power is what separates Gensokyo from the outside world. There really aren't any youkai in Gensokyo who could stand against her. Needless to say, a human probably wouldn't stand a chance either.

"Yukari... Yakumo, huh? Since she probably chose the name 'Yakumo' herself, I guess you have no choice but to bend to her will. "Shrine maidens must do as she says.""

Dinner was finished, so we sat outside and gazed at the moon while sipping sake. The rain had wiped away all traces of the day's heat, so it was a crisp summer evening. It was the best kind of night for watching the moon, but Reimu and Marisa had already taken all the sitting space in front of the entrance, so I stood behind them and enjoyed my sake.

"Oh, I was drying some clothes at the shrine before I left. I wonder if they'll be all right, since we had that storm."

"Of course they aren't. It was rainin' so hard we couldn't leave."

"I guess so. I'll probably have to wash them again... By the way, Mr. Rinnosuke, about what we were talking about earlier... What do you mean "I have to do as she says?""

"Well, the name "Yukari Yakumo" says it all, doesn't it?"

I have the ability to tell what something's name is just by looking at it, so maybe I go on a little too much about names, thanks to that.

You can generally divide names into two categories. There are names that describe an objects's characteristics, and names that determine its characteristics. The former are names that generally describe something's shape, color, other external attributes, or in the case of things like tools, their utility. Most animals, plants and natural objects are named in this fashion.

The latter type of names are usually given to those things whose nature hasn't yet been determined, or to those that the namer wishes to merely distinguish from other things. The names of people and the personal names youkai take on fall into this category, as well as the names of most commodities. These are the names that have the most power over a thing. Since a person's name has a great effect on the sort of personality they develop, parents normally give their children names that hold various meanings. They don't just pick names that sound pleasing to the ear.

"The name 'Yukari' means 'violet,' and violet is the outer-most color in the rainbow. In fact, when a dragon flies through the sky, the pair of rainbows it leaves behind appear to be an identical set, but in fact, the outermost color of both is violet."

"That's true. I've seen two rainbows when I look closely, but I can never quite make out how the colors are arranged."

When rainbows appear, they often form in pairs: an inner rainbow that you can see easily at a glance, and an outer rainbow that's considerably fainter. Quite a few people don't seem to know the order of the colors in each rainbow.

From bottom to top, the colors of the inner rainbow are violet, indigo, blue, green, yellow, orange and red, but the outer rainbow goes from red to violet in the reverse order. In other words, it's reversed. So, if you put the two rainbows together, from bottom to top the colors progress from violet to red, and then from red back to violet. The border between the rainbow and the sky is certainly colored violet.

"Just going by that, her name obviously is a reference to borders, right? But that's just her first name. Her other name, 'Yakumo,' if you take it literally, it refers to the kind of clouds that pile up on themselves in many layers."

"What do you mean, if you take it literally?"

"Well, the word 'yakumo' isn't used by itself very much. However, it's used quite extensively in the divine land of Izumo. In her case, it's quite likely she's taken it from the verse: Yakumo tatsu Izumo yaegaki tsumagomi ni yaegaki tsukuru sono yaegaki wo.

"What is that? An incantation?"

"It's a poem that was composed by his divinity, Susano-o. They say it's the first Japanese poem ever written. Quite surprising, isn't it?"

"Huh, I've always pictured Susano-o as more violent. I had no idea he wrote poetry. But what does it mean?"

"The contents are very simple: 'In the land of Izumo, covered by beautiful, heavy clouds, I've built a great fenced mansion to let my wife, Princess Kushinada, live a peaceful life in seclusion.'"

"...Sooooo, it just means he built a house? Why bother with a poem about something like that?"

"Well, it's because it's the first Japanese poem. The way he repeats the word "yaegaki" over and over really brings out his merry spirit at having finished that house, don't you think?"

"It seems more foolish to me."

Well, what about a shrine maiden calling what the gods do foolish...?

"Getting to the point, aside from the primary meaning of borders, Yukari Yakumo's name also has the hidden meaning of 'A strong fortress to keep the gods trapped inside'. Now, if you substitute shrine maidens for the gods, it's obviously Gensokyo. Yukari will never let the shrine maidens escape from Gensokyo."

Reimu became quiet. She probably had a lot to think about.

It's nice enough to sit in silence and drink sake, but you only get so much out of it, so I decided to renew the conversation a different topic.

"Oh, and speaking of that particular verse, you can see yet another side to it if you say it out loud."

"Yakumo tatsu... uhhh, how'd it go again? I forgot." When Marisa said this, I recited it once more.

"Isn't the sense of rhythm from the repetition of the word 'yaegari' pleasant? And it goes well with the "ya" from the very first word 'yakumo.'"

"Ya, ya, ya... it's almost too much ya. I wonder why he wrote it that way?"

"Of course, there's a meaning behind it. But the true meaning is hidden in another word pronounced 'ya.'"

"Really? What would that be?"

"Why, the splendid 'night' that always hides itself from the great Amaterasu."

The wind had gotten rather cold. As the ground that had dampened earlier that evening dried, it probably caused the wind to pick up. I sipped on my "fuel." It didn't cool me down too much, but it did speedily give rise to a new line of thought. After all, if you look at the world the same all the time, you won't get any ideas more profound than what's in the realm of common sense.

"The number eight is actually very closely related to the night. Can't you read both characters as 'ya'?"

"Well, yeah, but you can do the same thing with 'yakiniku,' since you eat it at night. But usually it's pronounced 'yoru.' Isn't that all just coincidence though?"

"You might think so, if it was just the kanji for night and eight. But what's interesting is that those two words are almost the same in other languages, too."

"Really? I don't know much about other languages."

"In English, it's 'eight' and 'night', in Latin, it's 'octo' and 'nocto'[2], in German, it's 'Acht' and 'Nacht' and in a lot of other languages, eight and night sound very similar. Are those all coincidences?"[3]

"Hmm, I don't know much about the countries in the outside world. So why are words for night and eight so similar?"

"There are a few explanations, but unfortunately no one has a definitive answer."

"What? Why are ya bringin' somethin' up that you don't even get?"

"It's not that simple. To begin with, the etymology is probably different for each language."

Marisa didn't seem satisfied with that answer, so I promised I'd look into it some more.

"Anyway, we can speculate about why that is in Japanese, at least. The 'ya', or eight, in words like 'yakumo', 'yaegari' and 'yaorozu no kami' doesn't literally mean the number eight, but a very large number of something... Now, I hope you'll notice that whenever it's used that way, it's always pronounced 'ya'."

"Let's see, a great number of hills is 'yasaka', when cherry blossoms pile up it's 'yaezakura', the great many-headed demon Yamata no Orochi... Hm, it really is pronounced 'ya' whenever it means 'many'."

"All of these words are very old words that existed before we started to use kanji for writing. You don't say that you have 'eight' of something in modern Japanese if you want to say that you have a lot."

"Yeah, it'd be a huge pain to have to make enough food for 'eight' people."

"Anyway, my point is that the only reason this word for many, 'ya' was written with the character for eight is because eight was a big number."

"Eight is a big number? Aren't there lots of bigger numbers?"

"Well, it's true that nine is a larger digit, but eight and nine are both big numbers. However, nine, read as 'kyuu', is linked to the 'kyuu' in 'eikyuu', or eternity, so it's been linked to the infinite for a long time. After all, if there are a lot of something, there's still a finite amount, so it's obviously less than infinity. That's why eight, the number one less than nine, was given the pronunciation 'ya', I believe."

"Hmm. So you mean the character for eight wasn't always read 'ya'? What's its connection to the night, then?"

"Well, it's the word for 'night' that was originally pronounced 'ya', not eight. Anything that was incredibly high in number was linked to the night."

And that's not all. The Japanese names for numbers hide many more secrets like this.

"I wonder why the word for a great number of things was the same as the word for the night?"

"To answer that, all you need to do is gaze up at the sky on a moonlit night like this. Isn't it obvious why the word for the night came to mean 'a great many'?"

The clouds that had given us a sudden squall earlier in the evening had completely vanished. In their place, the skies of Gensokyo were filled with a countless number of stars. Forgetting my sake, I gazed up at the starry sky. The silvery river that flowed through the sky was more than enough to crush any reckless challengers who thought they could count every star within it.

In comparison, the sun floated high in the daytime sky without peer. It's only natural then, that the great Amaterasu, that is, the sun, would be worshipped as the highest god.

A countless number of stars twinkled in the sky. Their faint light made them seem like they had to hide themselves from the sun. All across the world, the night sky expressed how tiny humans must have felt in comparison to the sun, as well as the pain the youkai felt from it.

"Anyway, I think it'll be okay even if Yukari's planning something, so I guess I just have to train."

"Hm, maybe so. It will be good for you to get more powerful by training, and besides..."

There was no way to stand up to Yukari, nor was there any reason to do so.

"Yep. Anyway, I'd probably better go back to the shrine and figure out a new training schedule."

"But I'd wash that laundry again before that, if I were you. That storm probably did a number on it."

"Ohhh..."

"Evening storms happen all the time durin' the summer. Even if it's sunny all day, hangin' your laundry out to dry and leavin' your house like that is just careless, y'know."

"Well, the laundry was already wet, so what's the harm in a little rain?"

"Mm, maybe you're right."

"No, that's not it. If you don't take better care of them, your clothes will fall to pieces some day. I suppose with all your danmaku battles they're not fated to live long to begin with, but that means you should at least take proper care of them when doing laundry. It's important to value your possessions."

"All right. I won't leave the shrine until they're dry tomorrow. I bet they'll dry up in a flash under the summer sun."

"But if ya fall asleep, it'll be just as bad as leavin'."

The number for one can be pronounced hito, or hitotsu. When you count 1, 2, 3 as "hi, fu, mi", one is "hi". Needless to say, that's the same "hi" as the word for day. In other words, the sun. The Japanese counting systems starts out with the sun, and goes on to the wind ('fu'u), the water ('mi'zu), the sky, the earth and connecting everything to the night. By counting to nine, the Japanese number system includes everything in nature.

Even a single number has so many deep meanings to it. So needless to say, a name that incorporates numbers can easily hide very deep meanings, so it's not surprising someone like a strong youkai would do so. It's a huge mistake to think numbers are merely words to measure quantity. If that's what you think, you'd better look at the world around you a little harder. You might start seeing a great number of carefully hidden secrets.

Assume you have a die. If you were to roll it on a desk, few will be able to predict what the result will be.

Take the number that came up from that throw as one example of an outcome. Now, what will happen when the die is cast again?

Of course, it usually isn't possible to know what will happen, but let's assume some certain conditions. These conditions are ones that match the initial conditions of the dice. In other words, the initial states of position, angle and force.

What happens then? The dice will dance in the air rotating as the first time, strike the desk at the same place, the same angle, at the same time and bounce identically. Matching the exact same conditions may be something that a youkai can do, but it is more difficult for human hands. In that case, you may make a device that could do such a thing.

In doing so, the die should once again fall on the same result. The meaning hidden behind this reality is that everything in this world, no matter when or where it happens, will reach a condition identical to one in the past, and from then on, history will repeat itself. This point in time marks a predictable future. Furthermore, it is safe to assume that the conditions at the end of that repetition must return to the point it is in currently. Perhaps this world has already gone through some untold number of loops.

*Ring-a-ling*

I was in the middle of my work when the door made a noise that indicated my usual visitors. It is work to confirm whether or not daily life forms a loop.

That task would be writing in my journal. I had begun writing two or three years ago, and already I had filled several books. I was recording my viewpoint of the structure of Gensokyo, and I frankly believe that one day it will become a history book.

Youkai live longer than humans to an overwhelming degree, so there are few sources on Gensokyo's history. Because of this huge advantage over the humans, the youkai likely twist what little history remains to whatever will benefit them. Humans can learn much from history, but the youkai have intentionally stolen this away from them.

The youkai that live near the village are solely concerned with enjoying daily life, the youkai that live in the mountains only record history for the sake of the other residents there, but humans don't have much of an opportunity to make any. It's practically as if the history of Gensokyo has yet to begin.

I am writing a journal for both human and youkai. I expect it to become a unabridged history book of Gensokyo. It will be a breath of fresh air into the ordinary lives of both humans and youkai that live in Gensokyo.

"But man, that sure was a big'un, wasn't it? I don't think we'll see somethin' like that ever again."

"You're exaggerating. It's like that around this time every year."

Both Marisa and Reimu entered the store, brushing fallen leaves from their shoulders and hats.

A few years ago, the phantoms began increasing in numbers at the turn of the season. Since then, Reimu and Marisa's phantom-herding had become a yearly occurrence.

I could faintly remember this infestation happening every year. I suppose history is repeating in this world, after all.

"How did the phantom extermination go? Have their numbers decreased a little?"

"We had our hands full of them; the same as always. I wonder if I should come up with a counter-measure... There's more of them every year."

"Would leaving them alone create that much of a loss? But anyway, phantoms are cheerful beings, so maybe throwing a party or festival would gather them in one place."

"If we did that, there would be a loss."

"What would that be?"

"We can't eat the phantoms."

I believe it was over 60 years ago... There was a time where phantoms had increased in number, just like they are now. Gensokyo had resigned to the changes at the time, and resumed their peaceful life in spite of that.

Stable and resistant to chance, Gensokyo today exists in a similar "peace" to those days from 60 years ago. History is repeated over 60-year cycles. In other words, everything in the future 60 years may be rather nostalgic.[1]

"Don't you have any phantom traps in this shop? Something you can just leave somewhere that will catch phantoms or something...?"

"Hmmm, it's difficult to catch something that has nothing to catch on to. And they'd just slip through boxes and things like that."

"But I have to do something about them. If more keep showing up, this world might become the next Netherworld."

"It'll be fine. The phantoms will settle down after a while. The future is predetermined like that."

Reimu gave me a dubious expression.

"The vampires and youkai said the same thing you just did."

Phantoms will appear in public places, but they don't show up at my store often. To begin with, phantoms tend to gather easily wherever there is a lot of commotion. This is because of a phantom's transient nature, where they may vanish at any moment, so they gather at a lively place where it is easier for others to notice their existence. It is likely just as when they were human, preferring to be in crowds to people.

"There's no way ya can predict the future. Some people are only able to get by on luck, y'know." Marisa said, looking at Reimu.

"Well, if by "luck" you mean "intuition," there is actually a foundation for intuition."

Marisa's expression said that she didn't believe her.

"Whenever we play Chinchirorin at parties, you've seen horrible odds win out anyway. How can ya say there's a foundation for that?"

Chinchirorin?[2] Ah, the simple game played with dice. Feasts and gambling go hand-in-hand with the underworld.

"Marisa, I believe the reason why Reimu can guess the outcome of dice rolls must be because she can forecast using the predetermined future."

I told them my idea, about the mechanism by which the outcome of dice was set. Perhaps Reimu can determine the initial state and result of the dice by her intuition? There are those in this world with such luck.

"That's not it at all, Mr. Rinnosuke. I can't forecast anything no matter how long I look at the dice. People who do that only think of probabilities. Besides, for all their calculations, they can still be wrong."

"Why do you think so? While I suppose you don't do that, wouldn't that still let you tell the future if you could?"

Reimu looked shocked.

"I happen to have a very deep understanding of fortune, so today, I'll be doing the lecturing on the mechanism of fortune. And something you won't be able to forecast afterwards."

Reimu brewed tea for the three of us and gladly served it.

We looked forward to hearing the reason behind the quality of Reimu's intuition. I brought the tea to my lips, forgetting it had gone cold.

"...Ah. So what you're saying is that even if the initial conditions of the dice are the same, it's possible to get different results?"

"Of course, I am. Those aren't the only things deciding the outcome."

Reimu's tale was a complex one, but there was a shocking truth contained therein.

She says that the world is made up of three layers.

First is the physical layer that moves in accordance with the laws of physics, including all living things, objects, etc. It is on this layer that an object falls towards the ground, and that the water of the river flows.

The second layer is one that moves with the spirit, which includes things such as magic and sorcery, the mental layer. One's mood turning sour when meeting an unpleasant person, and releasing all your stress and cares during a party lie here. Since most youkai can control the world through both the physical and mental layers, they say that history repeats itself and the future is predetermined as a prank.

But according to Reimu, there is a third layer that rejects loops. The third layer is the layer of memory, which is the recollection of events that lies within all things.[3] Since it's only possible to add to the memory layer, it's impossible to completely recreate the past. If something were to happen that already occurred in the past, then there would be a contradiction because that would imply that memory was lost, which is impossible. The memory layer always continues to build up.

The physical layer follows the laws of physics, the mental layer explains the outcomes and the memory layer alters probability, mutually creating the future. Reimu said that excepting the cases when something has already happened in the past, it is impossible to predict the future.

So take the dice roll as an example. If you were to throw them with the same initial conditions as before, unless it doesn't recall being thrown in that way, the probability of the same outcome isn't as high as you might assume.

I followed her explanation up to that point, but then Marisa asked "So how are ya able to tell how the dice will fall?"

While I was entranced by Reimu's new illustration of the world, Marisa was unfazed. I didn't think she wanted to know just to beat Reimu at Chinchirorin, but to use that idea to become as lucky as Reimu.

"I'm not really "telling" anything. The way I can guess how the dice will fall is by feeling the dice."

The naturally-lucky Reimu, simply by using the memory of the dice, could make the outcome favor herself. The results just seemed to side with Reimu.

"What? Howzzat gonna help anyone but Lady Luck over here?" Marisa sulked.

I doubted the existence of things such as fortune in this world, deeming it too unreliable. This was largely in part of me thinking that the future was predictable. I saw good luck charms as nothing more than lumps of fallacy.

However, upon listening to Reimu's words, I have reaffirmed the existence of fortune. The blessed man and the cursed man both exist, certainly. There is a man that succeeds in shouldering his trials. There is a man that is a failure, captive by jinxes, as well. It might certainly be reckless to just think of each one starting in the same initial conditions.

If we assume that probability is determined by the power of memory, it may be natural that such a power can be manipulated by good luck charms. The more complicated and unusual the origins are, the more knowledge a charm will have, thereby raising its effectiveness.

Reimu added to this, "In this world, both objects and souls result from probability, and it is determined by how fortunate they are in the memories they hold."

I remember hearing that phrase before. "In the material world, that all things exist with probabilities is already common knowledge."[4] Something along those lines was written in a science textbook from the outside world. With only a vague understanding of its meaning, I wondered "So that means someone already determined these probabilities?"

But Reimu had come up with the same idea, and even worked in her idea of the memories changing the probabilities. It was surprising.

"Memory determines probability... in other words, it works like karma. That's pretty amazing. It may very well be true. By the way, how did you come across this knowledge?"

Your lifestyle appears so idle, I was about to add, but to preserve the current subject I changed my mind.

"I heard it from a really, really smart human."

"If ya say it like that, it makes ya sound even dumber..." Marisa muttered.

I wondered if there was any human in Gensokyo who knew the roots of the world like that.

"The reason why it feels like history repeats itself to youkai is purely because they aren't human. A human's memory is only as short as its lifespan, but in a youkai's lifetime, they will see the same things over and over again."

"Just like you, Mr. Rinnosuke," Reimu said smugly. The situation is usually reversed, so I was slightly annoyed.

"And this really, really smart human has the memories of all the books stored by her ancestors for generations. She knows things that not even youkai who have lived for a long time know, much less any other human."

That was a rather lengthy conversation. The color of the window has already changed to match the color of the evening. The autumnal tint of the leaves outside had begun to permeate the room.

"Even though the sun is beginning to set, did you have any business for coming here today?"

"Ah, that's right. We were here because we had nothing else to do."

"Chase out some phantoms, then go have a party at the shrine. We came 'ere t'invite ya. Whaddya say, Kourin?"

I see. It took quite a while for it to come to this. They didn't announce why they were here, and we thoughtlessly ended up talking for longer than expected.

"I appreciate the thought, but I still have an important job to do. And besides, if you play Chinchirorin, I doubt I would be able to be a match for Reimu."

"Job? Ya mean writin' yer book?" Marisa said while pointing at my journal.

"That's true, but I also have to tend to my store, as well."

"So you're still writin' that thing, huh? Thought ya gave up on that by now."

"Sooner or later, this journal will become a history book. I cannot stop so easily. This will be a history book that enriches human knowledge, a product of Kourindou."

A number of years ago, I started writing this journal since paper had become an easily-obtainable commodity, and I now have a considerable amount stored up. I plan on making a book to pass down these records. If the book becomes the history book of Gensokyo, the academia of Gensokyo will begin to move rapidly. This will bring Gensokyo closer to the outside world, and it will become a secure place in the future. (At the same time, if it sells well, the shop will also be secure.)

And today I learned about the mechanism of how reality can be determined from randomness, why there is a difference in the amount of fortune between people and how there are people who can know the coming reality surprisingly from Reimu. I should note the "Not records, but memory determines the future." concept in my book. And then, if whoever reads my book learns of this person who already has the mechanism of fortune, then they will probably be unable to guess the future. Humans living moving forward in a future unprecedented by youkai. And since the youkai will also be unable to know what will happen tomorrow, they will be fortunate enough to get a taste of the future we humans will enjoy.

It had become completely dark outside. I wonder if Reimu and Marisa are holding a party at the shrine by now. Their behavior, as always, drinking sake, as always, with Reimu winning the bets, as always, and drinking too much, as always...

However, this world has never repeated itself. Because Reimu, Marisa, the youkai and myself, the half-human, half-youkai, remember these things. Because these memories make every day more enjoyable, little by little. 

Although a lot of people don't like going to school, that definitely can't be said for everyone. Some people find long breaks excruciating since they have to dig up the initiative to plan their own schedules. No matter what any loner says, the fact is that no man is an island and total isolation is equal to death. Those who don't mind being alone will try to wave it off as saying that prefer being that way, and reject the pity of others. However, I'm an exception.

When summer vacation started, since I didn't have any friends to hang out with, I just holed myself up in my room the whole time. It wasn't that I was a "hikkikomori," afraid to go out into the world. I was more like an artist protecting their aesthetic standards from being muddled by the common style, a mathematician trying to solve the Millennium Problems, or a monk trying to reach enlightenment. Basically, it was a constructive isolation.

I actually gained the ability to travel to a world of fantasy while I sleep. I didn't really understand why, but it clearly had something to do with me forcing my way in before. So while my body was stuck in my room, my mind was off exploring and discovering new things every day.

"It feels so much cooler in Gensokyo. Maybe because it's at a higher altitude? I can't confirm that without a GPS, though..."

Taking advantage of the summer vacation, I had been spending longer periods of time in Gensokyo. Strangely enough, even though I was always sleeping, my body didn't seem weaker. If anything, I gained a bit of muscle tone. Whether I was moving in my sleep, or my real body had come with me too, I couldn't tell.

"Now, where should I go today? Reimu and Marisa told me not to go near the mountain or the forest, but they didn't say why..."

Obeying my curiosity, I headed towards the forest. I was only dreaming, after all, and I had become used to youkai and phantoms, so I didn't expect to be particularly surprised by anything. That was what I thought when I found someone carrying a large object wrapped in a cloth. She didn't seem to notice me, and the cloth wasn't able to cover the entirety of her load. It looked like an electrical appliance of some kind, which I hadn't seen much of in Gensokyo. Intrigued, I followed after her.

After a while, I noticed we were approaching the forest. My heart began to race as I expected her to pass beneath the canopy, but then I saw she had turned towards a modest-sized building and a warehouse not far away. All sorts of objects were scattered around it, and I thought it was one of those troublesome garbage dumps at first. However, upon closer look, they were arranged with a clear purpose. The items themselves were surprising, too: road signs, bicycles, cassette players, CRT TVs, and other stuff from the 1980s and earlier (long before my time) I had only seen in pictures. And since they were all things I recognized as being from my world, I thought I had left Gensokyo at some point.

I approached the building with a sign above its door that said "Kourindou." It seemed that was the name of the store.

I surveyed the interior of my shop. Practically everything seemed to not have functioned for quite some time. I was just about tired of looking at them.

In spite of that, the arrival of new goods increased as of late, particularly machines that require electricity. Unfortunately, supply far outweighed demand, and so they sat unsold. I thought I wouldn't be able to continue business if conditions persisted.

My name is Rinnosuke Morichika. I'm the owner of the curio shop "Kourindou."

Rather than sell items one can find anywhere, I thought to deal in a new trade -- the sale of items from the outside world.

That is why I don't feel too lonely on days without any visitors. That isolation gives me time to figure out how to use my collection. Even if I never have any customers...

*Ring-a-ling*

"Oh, is this a store or something?"

"Welcome, and yes, this is a curio shop. If you see anything you like, don't hesitate to ask."

"Wow, a curio shop.... I see, that'd explain things."

"But don't mistake this for a regular antique shop. I deal mainly with objects from the outside world, the only one of its kind in Gensokyo."

"Aha, hmmm..."

"You don't seem surprised... I bet you haven't seen anything like this before, have you?"

"Oh, that takes me back! I haven't seen a cell phone that folds in forever! So you even have this sort of stuff here..."

"You knew that was a cell phone? Who are you?"

"I live in the outside world. My name's Sumireko Usami. Nice to meet you."

"Y-you're from the outside world? You must be joking..."

"No, I'm serious. Hmm, how could I prove it...? Ah, I know. Here, it's the latest model cell phone. "

I hadn't been so surprised in years.

I have the ability to know the name and utility of an object merely by looking at it. The girl showed me an item called a "smartphone" that was clearly from the outside world. And the fact it was operable proved that she, too, was clearly from the outside world.

Even considering the nature of my business, I never thought I would meet someone from the outside world. However, becoming overwhelmed with excitement would have been imprudent, and so I strove to feign composure.

"H-how did you come to Gensokyo?"

"Well, it was a bit of a mistake, but I managed to force my way in a while ago. And ever since then, I'm able to come here whenever I dream for some reason."

"Really? So does that mean you're dreaming right this moment?"

"That's right. I come to Gensokyo when I sleep, and I return to the real world when I wake up. I've been coming and going all summer."

"Hmm, how strange. By the way, have you met Reim-I mean the Hakurei shrine maiden yet?"

"Yes, I know Reimu. I usually spend time at the shrine whenever I come here."

Well, that saved some trouble. I thought to warn Reimu that something was wrong with the barrier, but it seemed there wasn't anything to worry about.

In that case, it left me with one more pressing matter.

"So, if you are from the outside world, are you able to bring in other items of interest with you?"

"Huh?"

"As you can plainly see, I sell products from your world. I'm certain from your point of view, these are all standard, commonplace goods, are they not?"

"I wouldn't say that; they're a little too outdated... In fact, almost everything is from before I was born."

Having long believed to own the latest merchandise, this came as a slight shock to me.

"I see... Well, in any case, I'm interested in items from your world, so I want to see if you can bring something else from there."

She couldn't bring anything large with her. It was only natural, as she would have be able to fall asleep while holding it on her person. Nothing larger than a small handbag or smartphone would be feasible.

"But the smartphone can't do much if it's out of range. It's still useful though, since it tells the time and I can read books on it."

"Read books, you say?"

"Yep, with an e-book reader. I have a decent-sized library in here, even if it's all comics."

"Impressive. I could probably sell something like that in this world as well, since there is no shortage of book-lovers."

"I don't like the sound of that."

"Why not?"

"If everyone in Gensokyo had a smartphone, that'd kind of kill the mystique for me, for some reason."

"I'm not sure I understand..."

"In the outside world right now, everyone's glued to their smartphones, no matter if they're waiting for a train or sitting at a restaurant."

"If the people in the outside world are that fascinated with them, then why not give them to the people of Gensokyo?"

"I'll admit they're vital for communication, but then people use them for pointless chatting, reading gossip on the internet, playing games, watching videos... I'm like, turn that stupid thing off and pay attention to what's in front of you, you know? The world is full of amazing things, but no one seems to notice. They'd rather take "hilarious" pictures to post online even when the occult is just under their noses."

I'm not entirely certain, but she suddenly launched into a miniature rant full of incomprehensible indignation.

"If everyone in Gensokyo ended up as smartphone addicts, I might as well stop visiting. Assuming I'd be able to, anyway."

"I see, so everyone in the outside world is overly dependent on smartphones. However, what I find odd is how you seem to value yours though you seem to dislike them so much."

"W-well, I did say they were useful. It tells time, acts as a library, and lets me check the train schedule."

"So if it's that useful, then I'm certain others will feel the same."

"But you see, no one will ever look up from it, even when they're in the same place with their friends. Our society has valued long-distance communication too much, causing interpersonal communication skills to decline. It's a big social problem."

"I don't see how I could see a problem from a world I know nothing about. I just think that tools are there for the improvement of mankind. It's impossible they cause society to regress without it being some sort of magic item."

Because I knew the utility of everything I saw, I had never seen an item made for the sole detriment of humanity. In the case of the smartphone, though it had a host of applications, at the core its purpose was to "provide free supply of personal information." That was how simply holding it could help protect civic order. It was unthinkable that the inventor of such a highly social device wished to debilitate the public.

"Now then, how much would you sell that smartphone for?"

"I can't sell this! It's the latest model, and besides, it hasn't even been paid off yet."

"Hmm..."

"Wait a second, does that mean you buy stuff from the outside world, too?"

"That I do. I normally sell whatever I find on my own, but I will purchase items on occasion. And I'd give up an arm and a leg for usable merchandise."

"Okay, in that case, I'll bring some things I have lying around next time. I've always wanted money from Gensokyo."

"What, does that mean you're poor?"

"No, I've just never needed money here. It's incredible how everyone here gets along without it."

"Gensokyo operates mostly on bartering, although the humans and youkai have their own systems as well."

"Bartering, huh?"

The girl wore a thoughtful face as if remembering something.

"What is it?"

"By the way, I got here by following someone carrying an electrical appliance in a large cloth. I wonder if she came here to barter with that."

"That wasn't a customer; that was my helper."

As the places I could hunt for wares had been restricted as of late, I hired an assistant to search in my stead. She came with all sorts of strange items, one after the other. As payment, I would give her a small fee as well as tell her about the items she retrieved.

However, she seemed to have an inclination to pick up electrical items, which meant my store was filled with the worthless things. I began to think I needed to handle searching myself once again.

Her latest delivery was regarded by the human from the outside world as unfamiliar. It too seemed to be behind her time.

"Whoa, it's a mini-disc player. I've heard about them, but it's the first one I've seen. And this is a cassette tape recorder? This place is nothing but antiques... They might go for a good price if you put them on auction sites.

"Those items are valuable, so don't get rough with them."

"All right. By the way, how much are they?"

"I thought you didn't have any money? Well, no harm in telling you. They go for about this much."

"Um, I'm not sure if that's expensive or not."

"It's about several times the worth of your smartphone. Going by size, anyway."

"That much?!"

Promising to bring something during her next visit, she left the store. Though I did not make a sale, this chance meeting held far greater value.

I was beginning to consider closing my shop, fed up with the monotony in deliveries as of late. But that unexpected occurrence would undoubtedly lead to a deeper comprehension of my merchandise which would in turn create a better understanding of their value. Kourindou itself may even be reborn.

Though I did not mind isolation, I reconsidered after meeting the girl. Meeting other people helps expand one's knowledge and encourage development. The same could be said for tools, which could even result in them finding new life. I wanted to take my collection and start sharing it with others, because I then felt that was probably the mission of a curio store. 

"Ugh, it's so hot in this store. Don't you have an air conditioner or something?"

The customer flapped a fan in a dramatic fashion.

"Umm, is it really that hot?"

"Yes, it is. The outside feels cooler here than it is over there, but the inside is much hotter since there's no air conditioner. Well, assuming you know what that even is."

So said the customer relaxing in my store, a human from the outside world. Apparently, she is somehow able to come to Gensokyo in her dreams, and usually hangs around the shrine or my store.

"Then why don't you bring me this air conditioner that is so common in your world?"

"Uh-uh, it's not like I can just go to sleep while hugging an air conditioner. Not to mention they come in two parts, one that goes outside and the other inside."

In truth, I knew what air conditioners were because they had come through my store in the past. I had seen with my ability that they were machines that could blow not only cold air but also hot air, but as always I had no idea how you were supposed to use them. When I asked Ms. Usami about it, she turned me down, saying that she wasn't familiar with their workings and the installation procedure, and that they wouldn't work without an outdoor unit, or electricity, anyway.

"By the way, have you been to the shrine today? "

"No, I haven't."

"I see. Reimu has told me often that you should go over to the shrine whenever you visit, just in case."

"All right. Well, since today I came for other reasons than just exploring Gensokyo, I'll go after I finish that up."

"...Another meeting?"

My name is Rinnosuke Morichika. I'm the shopkeeper of the curio store, "Kourindou".

Though I say curio store, it doesn't just have ordinary tools and antiques, but also deals in items from the outside world.

The customer that was currently here was Sumireko Usami. She was an excellent client that would bring tools and knowledge from the outside world to my store. However, she hasn't been using this location as a store lately.

She was being observed by various people. If something happened to her and the outside world found out about Gensokyo, it would be a serious matter, and conversely there was also the possibility of her bringing something detrimental into Gensokyo. Of course, Reimu was already considering putting her under strict supervision. However, as Sumireko hates being restrained, she's been appearing in several locations. That was why her arrival at the store would mean she was most likely meeting up with someone, unbeknownst to Reimu.

"Would you be meeting the mountain hermit again?"

"That's right. If it were anyone else I could just meet them at the shrine."

"It seems that hermit is requesting a lot of things from you."

"Yeah..."

She started playing with her smartphone as if she didn't want to be questioned any further, so I decided to stop my inquiry.

The mountain hermit was the one known as Ibarakasen. It seemed she would descend upon the shrine on occasion to educate Reimu, so I did not know why she was keeping her meetings with a person from the outside world secret from her.

According to what I have heard, she would make requests such as procuring cherry anthias from the outside or cheering up Reimu when she's feeling down.[2]

Sumireko was growing surprisingly close to those that were not human. Normal outsiders (humans that came to Gensokyo from the outside world) would most likely have lost their minds by now, but because she either had a lot of nerve or a few screws loose already, it seemed like she had lived here all of her life.

*Ring-a-ling*

"She's here. It's the hermit."

Ibarakasen. With one arm tightly wrapped in bandages and the other connected to a chain, she emanated an aura of iniquity, but her demeanor was gentle. Whether humans or youkai, she would treat all with kindness.

"I'm sorry to have kept you waiting in such a hot place."

"The wait wasn't that long, but it really is hot."

"It's because there are so many unsold items that this store has poor ventilation."

Though I wondered if it was truly that hot, it was undeniable that recently the ventilation had been poor. If these freeloaders would simply buy a few goods, then the ventilation would improve.

The two began their conversation, taking no notice of me, the proprietor. So as to not eavesdrop on their conversation, I moved further away and opened up a book.

-Some time later...

"We're done. Thanks again, Keeper of the Meeting Place."

"Who are you calling "Keeper of the Meeting Place"? ...And where's Ms. Usami?"

"She's already left."

"Quick as always, isn't she? Doesn't even say goodbye."

"She always disappears suddenly because she leaves when she wakes up, after all. She can only spend about forty, fifty minutes here at a time."

"If she's entering the dream world as soon as she goes to sleep, then that's quite a short sleeping period."

"Well, it is midday, after all..."

Ibarakasen laughed as if she was a little amazed. It was only natural, since it was rather strange for someone to be sleeping so often in the middle of the day.

"By the way, what did you request from her this time?"

"My, didn't I tell you that you're better off not asking if you want to live long?"

"Well, I'm not too interested in living long. And wouldn't that be a fair payment for making use of this meeting place?"

"...Hmm, I don't think I can do so in this case."

"That's fine. I'll just ask Ms. Usami."

"If you would do that, then be my guest."

"...? Anyway, there's something that I've been curious about since a while ago..."

What I had been curious about was how Ms. Usami had come to be this hermit's errand girl.

"Hmm, errand girl, you say? Is that what it looks like?"

"I can't help but think that you've figured out her weakness or something. Haven't you made a lot of requests that don't seem to hold any merit for her, like procuring objects from the outside world?"

Ibarakasen thought for a bit.

"...Indeed, you could say that I know her weakness. I can't tell you anything about today's request, but as payment for using this meeting place I'll tell you about the incident she caused around her last year.

Ibarakasen began to tell her story. To me, who had little interest in battles, it was a story full of yet unknown truths.

-The incident that had caused Sumireko to start appearing in Gensokyo occurred around this time last year.

She had learned about Gensokyo in the outside world and entered it using her own power. However, it was difficult to fully penetrate the powerful barrier from outside. To counteract this, she entered partially and laid a trap that would cause someone to weaken the barrier from the inside. Her plan was only half successful, and now she can only be in Gensokyo in her dreams by materializing in an incomplete form.

"Now I understand. So it was due to her trap that the commotion about Occult Balls that I saw even outside my store occurred, right?"

"Right. The Occult Balls were a crystallization of the lack of common sense in the outside world, so they were irregular objects that could disrupt the boundary of common sense that formed the Great Barrier."

The Great Barrier had been created such that common sense was kept outside, while the lack of it was kept inside. If some contradictory object that was not supported by common sense but yet existed in the outside world tried to penetrate the barrier, then it would threaten its very existence.

"I see. I would've liked to see one of those Occult Balls."

"If you had managed to obtain one of them, then maybe it would have been less trouble, thinking in hindsight."

"Does being the owner of a curio store that deals with goods from the outside world make me some sort of special, superior being?"

"You can tell the name and usage of something just by looking at it, can't you? Then perhaps you would have been able to see through the trap as well."

"That certainly could have been the case. ...Ah, I know what it is now."

"What?"

"It's because of disturbance over the Occult Balls that Ms. Usami can't stand up to you. Am I right?

"Ah, um, well, that's not exactly it..."

Soon after, Ibarakasen left, and the shop returned to its usual state of lone emptiness.

I would never have guessed that the powerless-looking Ms. Usami had tried to destroy Gensokyo's barrier, and half succeeded at that. However, I now understood the reason for Reimu's and Ibarakasen's excessive meddling. They were not protecting her from the dangerous youkai in Gensokyo, or preventing an incident from occurring, but that they were observing someone who could potentially act with ill intentions.

I thought that she had adapted to Gensokyo with extreme ease, but I suppose it was obvious for someone who always wanted to come here.

-"Ring-a-ling"

"Huh? Has Kasenny already left?"

"'Kasenny'? W-well, yes, but why are you back so soon?"

In less than an hour, Ms. Usami had come to the store again.

"Hmm, I just wanted to discuss something with her for a bit. I was woken up earlier since it was time for lunch, but now my afternoon classes have started, I came back."

"I'm a little worried about you sleeping so frequently during the day. By the way, Ibarakasen told me that I could ask you about her earlier request, so if you don't mind..."

"You mean what we just talked about? Hmm, I dunno... Ah, but if Kasenny didn't tell you..."

For some reason, she seemed happy.

"The truth is, it was actually my turn to request something from Kasenny this time."

"Huh?"

"You see, it might have seemed like I was the one that was always taking jobs for her, but it wasn't that one-sided. We actually agreed to trade off on who makes requests, and it was my turn to ask this time.

In Gensokyo, hermits were beings that were respected to an extent. Considering that there was supposed to be a huge gap between the humans and the hermits, it was possible that this outsider was more important than I had assumed. She had been trading requests under equal conditions with a hermit. Moreover, to think she was calling her by a personal nickname... I had heard rumors, but these "female high-school students" are terrifying. I wonder if it was true that they didn't even fear death.

"I-I see. That's why Ibarakasen needed your permission when I asked her about the request."

"As for the request itself... well, it's a little silly. I just asked her to guide me around Gensokyo's occult spots. And she told me that she would have everything ready if I waited until next week."

"I see. It is a little silly, but... I wonder where Gensokyo's occult spots are supposed to be."

"I actually asked her first to install an air conditioner at this meeting place because of how hot it was, but she turned it down, saying that was beyond her powers."

"Oho, I would be quite grateful for an air conditioner in my ...Wait, this isn't a meeting place!"

I learned that last year, strange urban legends had manifested and ancient occult happenings were widespread. I also learned that the Occult Balls had appeared and that Ms. Usami was in her current condition because of the resulting calamity. However, I had heard from the hermit earlier that the Occult Balls were separate from the occult happenings.

As proof, even if the Occult Balls had disappeared, the occult happenings were continuing to spread instead of settling down. And a person had appeared that could control the occult freely.

It was possible that, seeing the occult run rampant in Gensokyo, Ms. Usami could concoct some terrifying scheme. I tried asking about this indirectly.

"What do you plan on doing by visiting Gensokyo's occult spots?"

"Well, you see, I'm the president of the Sealing Club, which is basically like an Occult Club. That's what I'm interested in."

"Couldn't Gensokyo itself be considered occult from an outside world point of view?"

"...I guess that's true."

With her mumbled words, I was certain of some ulterior motive.

"Does your attachment to the occult have something to do with the situation you're in right now?"

"I definitely can't argue with that, and I do want to do something about how I can only visit Gensokyo in my dreams. I know that the occult is changing the world of Gensokyo, so I thought that if I could figure out why the occult was manifesting, I could change my situation, too. And maybe I'd even be able to enter Gensokyo in a complete form."

Sumireko was very intelligent. It was possible that she knew more about the structure of the occult than anyone else in Gensokyo. She talked about occult matters from the outside world too -- phenomena that spread artificially, others which were sure to be lurking in the latest technology, and even those that developed their own characters.

That was because instead of believing in the occult, she thought that a thorough understanding of it was the best way to avoid its effects, hence her research, as she said. It was a notion absent from all of Gensokyo's residents.

Her occult theories even covered Gensokyo's occult crisis, and she even made the prediction that it was being caused by some third party, and in the near future there would be a destructive wave coming using the power of the occult.

She was strangely persuasive, to the point that I felt if we were too careless, she would be the key that would tear through the barrier of Gensokyo, making it a part of the occult of the outside world.

After a week had passed, she and the hermit went on a tour of Gensokyo's occult spots one night as promised. It seemed they visited places such as the temple's graveyard and the shrine, and some more unusual places such as the mansion on the lake and Youkai Mountain. Apparently, Ibarakasen had asked others to play roles representing occult phenomena at each spot to frighten her, making it a test of courage with the VIP treatment of guaranteed safety.

Hearing this, I laughed to imagine Sumireko's disappointed expression as she thought about how she did not want such a farce. 

A deep snow had fallen outside, and I was almost unable to see anything out the window. There was no one to shovel the snow off the path to the store. As a result, there were almost no visitors in winter, and business was poor.

However, today there had been a visitor that had arrived early on. That visitor was currently skimming through the books that were for sale.

"'The Flood of Fake News and Post-Truth'...[1] Seems like a hard book with lots of words I don't know. I wonder if something's going on in the outside world?"

"I don't know too well myself, but it seems that the person chosen to act as the president that oversees the world has changed, and this new person is desperate to pass off lies as truth, and there's a lot of chaos stemming from that."

"So it's like a power struggle, huh. The outside world seems to be falling into an unsightly state, just like Gensokyo."

Reimu was reading a magazine from the outside world. The contents included celebrity scandals, corruption in politics, health hazards, and slave labor by large companies-basically all articles that had nothing to do with the people of Gensokyo. This was apparently a form of magazine called a 'tabloid'.[2]

"Just like Gensokyo? Are you saying that Gensokyo is in an unsightly state from a power struggle?"

"More or less. There are a lot more youkai trying to exert their influence over the Human Village, and while there hasn't been any open conflict, I get the feeling a lot of maneuvering has begun behind the scenes."

"For example?"

"The tengu and the tanuki have already shown their faces and are influencing the village, the rabbits and the kappa are selling their goods to the humans, and even the youkai temple and Miko's dojo seem like they're constantly planning to capture the hearts of the humans. I'm sure there are other youkai factions that are trying to move in secret, and I really have no idea where to start..."

Even as Reimu said that, she didn't seem to be too concerned. Rather, she seemed to be enjoying the power struggle.

She was really a freewheeling person, not tied down to anybody. She couldn't even be brought down by gravity. Of course, somebody so freewheeling had no reason to fear being controlled by anyone else. She would be able to view the power struggle from an objective standpoint, and enjoy it almost as if it were a game.

So I decided to ask a bit of a mean question.

"Ah, so such important things were taking place outside the store. But if Gensokyo were to fall under somebody's control... I wonder who'd be good as president?"

Reimu pondered this.

-Ring ring.

"Ah, it sure is cold. The snow is falling a lot harder."

A new visitor had arrived. It was the tengu reporter known as Aya Shameimaru. She did visit once in a while, but it was mainly to collect data or publicize her newspaper, and she rarely actually bought anything. To be honest she was a bit of a nuisance, but I was worried that if I treated her coldly, she would write bad things about the store in her newspaper.

"Please make sure to clean off the snow on your clothes before you enter the store."

"Oh, Reimu... Hm, I see, I see."

As if she had stumbled across some interesting material, Aya began to take pictures of Reimu. It seemed Reimu was accustomed to having her picture taken, as she didn't take any notice.

"By the way, have any new goods arrived?"

"That again? Does the increase in items from the outside world really bother you that much?"

"Yes. You see, I'm very interested in your source of supply."

Recently, I've had more opportunities to obtain items from the outside world. Needless to say, that was the work of one Miss Usami, but due to it I ended up being relentlessly pursued by this reporter.

"How many times do I have to say it? It was the foreigner, Miss Usami-"

I cut myself off. I was supposed to be keeping Miss Usami's visits to this store a secret from Reimu. However, the reporter responded in a loud voice, as if wanting Reimu to overhear her.

"Ah, I remember. The foreigner brought them in for you, didn't she? Wow, it's incredible that you have a direct link to the outside world now. To try and bring in new outside forces to Gensokyo, which has grown so much in its insular state, Kourindou is very liberal-minded."

The reporter was clearly treating me as an enemy. More than likely, it was because she was assertively taking part in the 'power struggle' mentioned earlier by Reimu. Though I was at a loss as to how I was going to explain it to Reimu, she was surprisingly calm.

"By the foreigner, you mean Sumireko, right? She's not as dangerous a person as you think she is, Aya."

It appears that she had already figured out that Sumireko had been visiting my place. I pat my chest in relief.

"Hm, I wonder if that's really so. Isn't it your job to send back humans that have wandered in from outside? But then why are you leaving her as she is?"

"That only applies to humans that have wandered in by accident. In her case, she's coming in of her own free will... And the real cause is actually unknown, so it's a little more complicated."

"Oh my, that's a pitiful thing to hear. Let me make a note of that."

Aya happily recorded something in her notebook.

"Make a note of that? Don't even think about making this into an article."

"What are you saying? As someone who works to expose the truth, I won't stop just because someone tells me to."

Though Reimu tried to snatch the notebook away, she was easily dodged, and a picture of her frantic expression ended up being taken instead.

"'The Hakurei Shrine in Cahoots with the Foreigner to Take Over Gensokyo!?' An article like that would definitely be a huge shock, wouldn't it?"

Aya grinned widely.

"Expose the truth, as if. They're just a bunch of made-up fake articles!"

"Oh, but I happen to believe that that is the truth. So what's wrong with simply trying to report that truth? No such things as truly objective facts exist except in ideal worlds like mathematics. This is the answer that I have chosen to maintain as a reporter. That's why, this new post-truth is something I will create!"

-Ah, ginger tea on a winter day is really the best. The warmth spreads throughout my body...

As usual, a quarrel between the reporter and the shrine maiden had begun, so I watched over them from a distance while recovering some warmth. Though the reporter had been saying some ominous things, it was probably all just provocation. It was possible that the matter of Miss Usami weighed that much on her mind.

"By the way, you two. This isn't some place to lounge around, so do you perhaps have anything else to take care of?"

The reporter turned around and answered me.

"Yes, of course. According to one of my information channels, I heard that 'the foreigner would appear here today', so I thought I would do some impromptu journalism."

"Eh? Miss Usami is?"

That was the first time I was hearing of it. And Reimu continued from there.

"You heard that from the hermit, right? I'm also here because I also heard that information. Here to really drill it into her head that whenever she comes to Gensokyo, she should be coming to the shrine."

"I came to collect some data, but when I found Reimu already here, doesn't that make things even more suspicious? It wouldn't be unusual to think that the two of you are connected behind the scenes."

Saying that, Aya took several more pictures of Reimu.

Getting a little irritated at the reporter's behavior, I gave her a warning with provocation in mind.

"You'd be better off not constructing truth based off a single point of information. It can easily turn into waste."

"Thank you very much for the warning, but I know that much even without needing to be told. That's why I'm here, after all. In order to connect all the points together, I wanted to ask the person herself..."

"Before you conduct your interview, I'd like to have a little talk with Sumireko first."

"See, that's very suspicious. You're trying to make sure your stories line up, aren't you?"

"It's not that. See, that person, well, lacks a bit of common sense."

"That's a lame excuse."

It seemed like another quarrel was brewing, so I tried to force my way in between them.

"Well, well, it seems the two of you have oddly come here with the same goal in mind. I'd like it if you two wouldn't fight."

The two of them faced away from each other.

"So, when's Miss Usami coming, anyway?"

"Let's see... She should've been here a while ago. She has a pattern of coming to Gensokyo at certain times, you see..."

"According to the information I procured, the time she was expected to arrive has long since passed indeed."

"Hm? What? Don't tell me-"

I had a very bad premonition. A deep snow had fallen outside, and visibility was poor. With no one to shovel the snow, there wouldn't be a path to the store.

"She didn't get into an accident, did she?"

-No sooner had I said that than the two took action.

Watching those two rush outside with no hesitation made them seem almost reliable. It was a big difference from me, not wanting to leave the warm store because my ginger tea was still warm and I had started to look for a padded kimono.

Well, even if Miss Usami had gotten into an accident, it would be fine if those two were seriously looking for her. The ones that would be the most troubled by an outside human going missing would be the shrine maiden and the youkai. There was no doubt that they would search for her with their lives on the line. With the intention of leaving it to them, I figured I may as well ready a warm drink.

-Ring ring.

Before long, the two of them returned with a girl, shivering from the cold, on their shoulders. See, it's times like this that the shrine maiden and the tengu can be exceedingly reliable. There was really no need for me to expressly go out into the cold as well.

"Oh, that was fast. You must be cold, right?"

I offered her the ginger tea.

"Wow, I thought I would die. Everything around me was completely white, and it was like, where in the countryside am I?"

Sumireko was in a bit of an excited state.

"To come dressed so lightly and in shoes so short, does snow not fall in the outside world?"

"There's only about a few centimeters of snow at any time. Although I guess it would fall like this deep into the mountains."

"You've really had a hard time, then. Although you seem more like you've had the time of your life."

"I-it's nothing like that. It's not like I would run around and play just because I saw this much snow. I just got a bit lost when trying to take a picture, since it was rare for me."

It was clear that she had run around. I had thought that the only ones who would run around after just seeing snow were very young children... Perhaps the people of the outside world were much more innocent at heart than I had thought.

"Well, regardless, I'm glad you're safe. You should really give proper thanks. The ones who saved you are those two over there, after all."

"Really, thank you very much!"

Reimu was shocked at Sumireko's lighthearted attitude.

"It's fine this time since I was here, but if you take accidents like this too lightly, you'll die, you know!"

"Sorry about that. But I figured that since I'd go back if I just woke up from my dream, an hour or so would be fine."

"If you just woke up...? Now I wonder what that could mean."

Aya jumped at the opportunity. Seeing an unfamiliar face, Sumireko was rather bewildered.

"Ah, pardon me. I am the first-class newspaper reporter, Aya Shameimaru."

As if she were an office worker, Aya handed over a business card.

"Newspaper... reporter? There are jobs like that even here in Gensokyo?"

"Yes, just like the reporters of the outside world, Gensokyo is also in need of people to disseminate the truth."

Sumireko tilted her head.

"You are Sumireko Usami, correct? Excuse me for asking while you're still tired from that accident, but would it be all right to ask for your cooperation with an interview later?"

Though Reimu whispered "It's okay to refuse," Sumireko gave an immediate response with a "Sounds good!"

"An interview? It's almost like I'm a celebrity! What kind of article is it?"

"Up until now, I've been printing nothing but newspapers, so this time, I thought I'd try my hand at a magazine, so..."

"Eh? It's the first time I'm hearing that you were making a magazine," said Reimu.

"Did I not tell you? To delve further into the truth, a different reporting style is necessary compared to the newspaper, whose main goal is to deliver information quickly. So I planned on publishing a book, using the outside world's magazines as reference, to achieve that!"

Aya pointed at the tabloid from the outside world.

"The name of my new tabloid will even be called 'Bunbunharu Weekly'. I've been gathering articles one after another, and I think you'll be shocked at the contents!"

Sumireko picked up the tabloid.

"Wow, it's a mass-market tabloid! Although the only ones I can imagine reading something like this are old guys."

"O-old guys?"

"To be honest, today's Internet Age doesn't really care all that much about some celebrity's affairs or drugs or money in politics. There are a lot of people that don't even watch TV. I don't know why people get so riled up about this stuff-it's a real mystery. Was I gonna be mentioned in a book like this? It's not like I'm part of any big scandal. Ah, don't tell me you were planning on interviewing me as a 'dokumo'!? Oh, you embarrass me!"[3]

Sumireko rattled on at a rapid-fire rate.

"Uh, w-well. Something like that. Dokumo, right?"

"No way, don't mess with me like that! There's no way I could be a dokumo. You want to interview me about the outside world, don't you?"

"Er, well, that's..."

Her mouth was succeeding in putting pressure on the high-handed tengu. Both Reimu and I were covering our mouths and trying not to laugh. Dokumo was an approximation of a dokugumo (poisonous spider) that would fixedly wait until they caught their prey. Watching as if the prey were being lured into the trap and caught, it really seemed as if Miss Usami was a dokumo.[4]

"U-um. Then, once again, I would like to change locations and conduct an interview."

Aya kept glancing in the direction of Reimu and me. It seemed she didn't want us to hear the contents of her information gathering.

"Well, I have to go back to the outside world soon. So, if it's all right to do it some other day."

"Yes, that would be more convenient for me as well. As for the location... We can meet at a conference room on the mountain."

"Wait, I won't accept that," said Reimu, forcing her way into the conversation.

"It's fine if I don't hear what you guys are talking about, but at least do it in a place where I can see you!"

Reimu's expression had suddenly become stern. The atmosphere even overwhelmed Sumireko.

"All right? I don't think I've said this yet, but this sorry excuse for a reporter is not human, you see."

"Eh? Not human?"

"She's a youkai. Even more, she's a tengu, known for kidnapping humans. So don't go following her so eagerly to her hideout."

Reimu spoke to Sumireko as if trying to terrify her. But it seemed this backfired.

"A tengu? Amazing, that's amazing! It's like I've met someone really important! Gensokyo, banzai!"

"A-anyway, I'll let you use the shrine, so you can do your interview there!"

Reimu tried to emphasize that point.

"All right. I'm fine with doing it anywhere!"

"Yes, yes. Understood. I'm sure there's some truth you want to hide from me. But this will affect the truth in the end, anyway, so I don't mind whatever ends up happening."

After scheduling their next meeting, Aya and Sumireko were sent off.

Reimu suddenly looked like she was completely exhausted.

As she left, she said, "Ah, right, right. Answering that earlier question. Tengu are definitely out of the question. Saying stuff like making up the truth, someone like her definitely can't be the leader of Gensokyo!"

Nevertheless, that Miss Usami was really a piece of work. To make even an experienced tengu falter on a peculiar train of thought, and to make even Reimu lend out her shrine-it was not something an ordinary person could do. And in Reimu's case, she had left without even fulfilling her original goal to warn Sumireko to not do anything on her own.

I looked forward to what sort of article her interview would result in.

-That was what I had thought at the time. However, Aya Shameimaru's first magazine, 'Bunbunharu Weekly', would not be released to the world. It appeared she had made some grievous oversight and prohibited its publication of her own will. Though I was glad that a new truth had not been invented, I was a little disappointed, as I had been looking forward to the articles. 

In summer, the night - moonlit nights, of course, but also at the dark of the moon, it's beautiful when fireflies are dancing in a mazy flight. And it's delightful too to just see one or two fly through the darkness, glowing softly. Rain falling on a summer night is also lovely.[1]

A rain so heavy that reminds one of fear. A night that is bright, and filled with noise so one never sleeps. A rebellious, tropical night. The summer night Sei Shounagon saw, who could imagine it? I wonder if the landscape floating within my mind is a summer of delusions born from nostalgia.

Still I see them in my dreams. Summer evenings illuminated by the moonlight; the moonless night, when the fireflies scatter at the darkest hour; a powerful and cool shower that washes away the daytime's warmth... Like the summer of a fantastic primitive landscape, as viewed by a peaceful aristocrat through a dream. It was meant to be an escape vacation from the painful summer of reality.

"What's happened here in Gensokyo?! There've been plenty of mysterious happenings so far, but at least the season always matched the time of year."

Summer had finally come around to Gensokyo again, but the ground is covered with snow, and a freezing wind was blowing.

"I can't even tell where the road is under all this- Wah!"

She slipped and fell on the untrodden snowy road. But nevertheless, she raised her voice with a smile.
 
"This is AMAZING! I knew Gensokyo was weird!"

Paying no mind to the snow that had gotten into her loafers, the girl ran across the snow in her summer clothing.

-Kourindou in the snow. Rinnosuke Morichika and Marisa Kirisame, each dressed warmly, are talking.

"I see, the fairies were rampaging? So that was the reason for the unseasonable snow? But you've already resolved the incident, right? So when's it going to go back to normal, Marisa?"

"Who knows? They said that it'd fix itself on its own over time, but..."

"I'm almost out of wood to burn, so I'll be in trouble if this off-season winter doesn't clear up soon."

It'd been a month since the rainy season ended and, instead of the long-awaited summer arriving, it got cold and started snowing. Rinnosuke had hurriedly set up a heater to fight off the cold, but due to its suddenness he was unable to prepare enough firewood.

"Hey, at least you've got heating. And compared to the endless blizzard in the forest, this is practically paradise. Well, I guess it's still worse than the endless spring at the Hakurei Shrine."

"Oh? So it's always spring at the shrine then?"

"Huh? Didn't I tell you?"

"I was sure that all of Gensokyo was buried in snow."

"That's 'cause you never leave your house. And it's not just the spring at the shrine either, the leaves are already changin' color on the mountain, and- Oh, someone's here."

There was a loud sound from the entrance.

"Uwah! It's soooo cold! I'm gonna freeze to death!"

"Oh, if it isn't Sumireko, glad you made it. But I must say, you're awfully underdressed for the weather."

Sumireko was shivering in her short-sleeved shirt.

"Even my socks are drenched! Ah... but it's so warm in here. I'm coming back to life..."

Sumireko took off her shoes and left them next to the wood-burning heater. Then Marisa picked them up.

"Hold on, you were walking through the snow in THESE? There's no cotton linin' in 'em, and the soles are smooth as heck. If you walk on snow with these you'll slip and hurt yourself."

"C'mon, it's summer! How was I supposed to know that it'd be snowing here?!"

She was the human from the Outside World, Sumireko Usami. As Marisa said, those shoes are unsuitable for walking on snow, but she wears the same shoes in winter too. In other words, she's an idiot who isn't worried about slipping.

"Well, these things happen here in Gensokyo."

"Wait, huh? I thought it was really warm here at first, but this stove doesn't have much firepower, does it? I'm already cold again."

Seeing Sumireko trembling with cold, Rinnosuke felt pity for her.

"Ah, I don't have much firewood left so I was trying to ration it. But, well, I hear this temporary winter is going to end soon, so I might as well raise the heat for today."

"You're a lifesaver!"

Sumireko put her hands together in an exaggerated prayer gesture.

"So, what's with the snow? Is something happening in Gensokyo?"

Sumireko asked a reasonable question. Even Marisa thought it was a natural question to ask, but she couldn't help but respond a little wearily.

"There's a lot to talk about, but first I want you to know that this 'someone does something, things are artificially abnormal' stuff happens like clockwork here in Gensokyo. We call them 'incidents'."

"Incidents? I see... wait, artificial? Are you telling me this is manmade snow Mr. Morichika is making with some machine?"

"Manmade snow... the way you put that sounds off, but this incident isn't just about falling snow. There's other stuff, like cherry blossoms blooming and leaves changing color. The seasons are going crazy all across Gensokyo."

"Whaaaat? All across Gensokyo? This is all too sudden, it's hard to believe this is artificial..."

"Well, I said this happens all the time, but to be frank this scale of incident defies common sense here. And actually, so does the lady behind it."

"Wow, so you know who did it then?"

"Yeah. Not only that, it's already been resolved, more or less, so the seasons should go back to normal."

"Oh, so that's how it is. By the way, how do you know so much about this, Marisa? Wait, don't tell me you're the culprit's henchman?

Marisa was starting to look annoyed by this conversation, so Rinnosuke interjected.

"Did no one ever tell you? Marisa Kirisame here is a human who makes her living resolving incidents."

"That's right. Whenever an incident like this pops up I drop everything and go resolve it. I'm what you call a hero of justice."

Marisa took a pose, but Sumireko thought that anyone calling themselves a hero of justice must be pretty lame, so she gave a wry smile.

"Oh, I-I see. So you were a hero of justice then. With that fashion sense, I could've sworn you were just someone celebrating Halloween all year round."

"You're making fun of me, aren't you? This is the uniform of a magician."

"Sorry. To be honest, it looks like the cheap cosplay they sell at a discount store, so- Ack!"[2]

Marisa leapt at Sumireko. With a laugh, Sumireko stopped Marisa's attack. Thinking "good grief", Rinnosuke took the opportunity to ask Marisa a question.

"Incidentally, I'm curious about this incident myself. What kind of person was the culprit, and what was their motive? Would you mind elaborating, Miss Incident Resolution Specialist?"

For whatever reason, Marisa didn't seem at all eager to respond, but perhaps seeing no easy way to change the topic, she began to speak reluctantly.

"-You said a door on your back? Ew, creepy!"

"And the people with those doors had their magical energy go out of control, so it was making their surroundings go haywire. Especially for those like fairies who control nature: because they were going crazy, the seasons were thrown into chaos all over the place."

"Wow, fairies are amazing then!"

"Hey hey, what're you being impressed for? Fairies ain't amazing. First of all, fairies are just manifestations of the power of nature. In other words, when the fairies go berserk it's nature going berserk. If anything, you should be scared of the folks who can make people go berserk over such a vast... Nah, nevermind."

"? Well, I guess that's true. But doesn't that mean that fairies already had enough magical power to make nature go berserk?

"Hmm, I dunno about that. All I can think of is that they were overflowing with more power than they normally have. I couldn't say where that power came from exactly though. Maybe from the culprit? Or from another world or dimension...? Anyway, the culprit was inside those doors on our backs."

"Ah, so you can go inside. The door on your back."

"Well what'd you expect? They're doors. And inside there was this indescribably creepy world."

Gradually becoming more enthusiastic, Marisa began to speak like she was telling a ghost story.

"...It was a snowy summer morning. A blizzard was raging in the Forest of Magic, and I could barely see a thing, when suddenly there was someone standing in front of me. 'Move, you're in the way!' I said that, but they didn't move. Thinking something was weird, I got closer to take a look, and it was a Jizo statue. 'Oh, it's just a statue? But who would put a statue in a place like this?' While I was wonderin' that, the Jizo statue gave a big smile and suddenly attacked me! 'Uwah! It's a Jizo monster!' I screamed when- Hey, stop that, I'm just getting to the good part."

"B-Back up here. Your tone is fine, and the story's fine, but this is starting to sound made-up. Now I'm just wondering how much of this is real."

"Well, some parts are true, but it's mostly made-up."

"What's with that?!"[3]

Sumireko gave the most cliche possible response.

-This is what Rinnosuke thought.

He couldn't tell how much of Marisa's story was true, and how much was fiction. He could see that she seemed to be avoiding the question. For whatever reason, she didn't want to speak of the incident. After resolving a big incident like this, she'd normally gladly brag about her heroism. It was just a guess, but he had a bad feeling about this.

"Marisa... Did you really resolve the incident?"

"'Course I did. Why would you doubt me?"

"It's just, you seem to be avoiding getting to the heart of the matter."

"Hmm. Well, I... it's true that I resolved the incident. But there are parts I don't wanna talk about..."

Just then, Sumireko looked out the window and became flustered.

"Hey, there's something out there! It's a Jizo with a straw hat and it's walking!"

"Huh?"

Surprised, Marisa and Rinnosuke looked out the window. There, they saw a small girl with braids dressed like a Jizo statue.

"Uwah, it's so warm inside Kourindou. I thought I'd go shopping in the village, but it's so cold out there that I was starting to reconsider."

Her name was Narumi Yadatera. She is an actual Jizo statue living in the Forest of Magic.

"I'm so sorry! I saw you walking through the snow with your hands held in prayer like that, so I thought a straw-hatted Jizo statue had turned up."

"Ahaha, this is Narumi Yadatera. And she really is a Jizo statue."

"What? Seriously?"

With no hesitation at all, Sumireko touched Narumi's body.

"Whaaat? She's soft! If the Jizo statue's not hard and heavy and stony then what's the point?"

"So who's this rude girl?"

"A human from the Outside World."

"What? Th-The Outside World?!"
 
"Nice to meet you, I'm Sumireko Usami! I'm a Super High School Girl who can freely come and go between Gensokyo and the Outside World!"

She seemed to be imitating Marisa's pose from earlier. Surprised, Narumi turned to Rinnosuke.

"I know you only ever sell useless junk from the Outside World here, but now you've got an Outside World HUMAN in stock? So, how much are you asking?"

Rinnosuke gave a bitter look.

"Narumi. She's not for sale. True, Kourindou deals in goods from the Outside World, but humans are not goods. She's a customer. For now, at least."

"Is that so? I'm sure she'd fetch a high price with youkai. If you look past her poor quality, she's certainly a rare item."

Narumi turned towards Sumireko as she announced her dislike, and laughed.

-A little while later, Marisa, Sumireko, and Narumi had opened up and were having a pleasant chat.

"Wow, so in the Outside World they can make one machine that both heats and cools? I'd love one of those. But how does it work? If it burns fire then it could only warm things up, but if it has ice inside it can only cool things down."

"Probably something to do with vaporization heat, but that's a good question. One sec, let me Google it- Oh, right, I'm outside the service range. I'll look it up later."

"What's that thing?"

"It's my smartphone. It's a device that can make calls, browse the net, look stuff up, check maps, and pretty much do anything. But, well, in Gensokyo it's basically just a watch with a camera."

With the store being turned into nothing more than a lounge, there was no place for me anymore. But I was still bothered by the topic of the incident's mastermind. What would make Marisa not want to talk about it? I could think of three reasons. First, that Marisa was lying about resolving the incident. Second, Marisa had actually been won over by the culprit. Third, the culprit is someone she knows and she's covering for her.

To be honest, all three seemed very possible. But when the circumstances of the incident affect all of Gensokyo to this extent, I think that everyone who lives here has a right to know. I need to ask the evasive Marisa once again. But I just can't find the timing to butt in on their silly girl talk. While I was hesitating though, Narumi changed the subject in precisely the way I needed.

"-Aw, I wish I had an air conditioner. If I had one of those, I'd have been fine even when summer suddenly changed to winter. By the way, Marisa, when is the winter in the Forest of Magic going to end? I thought you told me you resolved the incident."

Yes, this is it! That was my chance to insert myself into the conversation.

"I'd like to ask that again too, Marisa. It seems you don't want to talk about it, but THIS incident at least was a problem for everyone, so I think we deserve to know the truth."

Marisa muttered "Figured this would happen..." with a resigned look and began her explanation.

The incident was caused by the power of a single hidden god. It was a crazy story about her causing an incident that affected all of Gensokyo just to find a servant for herself. The most unbelievable part was how throwing the seasons into disorder wasn't even her goal, it was just a side effect.

"-Oh? So the incident was the work of that one hidden god? So one person alone can have such a great effect on all of Gensokyo? How frightening."

"So both Marisa and I were affected by the magic that created doors on our back without even realizing it. A magic that even I, a Magic Jizo, couldn't detect. How terrifying."

"Wow, so she can have an effect at such long range without even showing herself? There sure are some amazing people in Gensokyo!"

After hearing about the incident, the three of us were shocked. At the same time, we felt both fear and respect for this hypothetical god.
 
"See, that reaction! That's exactly why I didn't want to talk about this. The whole point of the incident was so she could show off her power. Whoever hears about this is shocked, scared, and inclined to admire her. And that's exactly what she wants!"

Marisa sounded frustrated, but perhaps because of the joy of getting this off her chest she continued with crazy stories of being invited to be this hidden god's servant, what was on the other side of the door, and everything else. With each one, the three of them swelled with interest, and there was always something more to talk about. If this was the hidden god's goal, then she had achieved total victory. Probably not even Marisa was especially vexed.

In the end, the Four Seasons Incident that disrupted all of Gensokyo left no victims. Its only lasting consequence was the deeply felt presence of the hidden god. The flower of conversation between this unique trio of magician, outsider, and Jizo continued to bloom. But personally, I was sick of all this endless girl talk and could only stare at the clock. I'm sure the hidden god would have been frustrated if everyone in Gensokyo were people like me. What a disappointment that would have been. 

The city I live in doesn't get much snow, and what little there is doesn't linger on into spring. So when spring does come, there's not much sense that the city is waking up from winter or anything like that. It's just the season of flowers and pollen.

Of all the long holidays, spring break is the most liberating. Those entering university or new jobs toss aside their identity as students and savor their temporary freedom. Even those simply moving up a grade are granted all the prestige of being an upperclassman simply by accepting the homework that's only even assigned for the sake of appearances. It's a chance to reset a year that didn't go so well and prepare to retake the challenge. That's what spring break is. And yet despite all that, it's become nothing more than a time for the narrow-minded to make merry.

The reawakening of life in spring has been corrupted by the partying of the pseudo-free-spirits. Why does the school year start in April anyway? Most countries do this, and while there are others that start after the long summer break, why can't we just follow the calendar and start in January?

That said, it's not like I hate spring break. Unlike those pseudo-free-spirits who only show up during spring break, I have true freedom. I don't waste my energy being jealous of other people on social media, or getting angry on the author's behalf when someone insults a work I really like. While everyone else is partying away spring break, I can simply travel to another world and enjoy spring the traditional way. The snow-covered Gensoyko I know will have the most beautiful spring, overflowing with life. Or so I thought, but in reality I was greeted with a strange occurrence.

"So, are the cherry blossoms in the outside world already blooming then?"

"Yup. Winter was pretty cold this year, but it suddenly warmed up as soon as we hit March."

"Nice. I wish I could go see the flowers in the outside world someday."

Marisa Kirisame and Sumireko Usami were talking at the shrine.

"Oh, no you don't. Outside world flower viewings aren't any fun at all. It's just pseudo-free-spirits getting smashed and making noise in a public park. Frankly I think calling it anything as elegant as a flower viewing is just rude to the flowers."

"Pseudo...free spirits?"

"Oh, I mean normal people. Normal in the sense that they know that society wouldn't normally let them just drink all day, so they're getting their taste of freedom during the one time they can get away with it."

"I get it. Well, no I don't."

"They've been liberated from society's norms, so they just make noise like the garbage they are. It's awful."

Sumireko was complaining, but seemed happy for some reason.

"I'm sure the flower viewings in Gensokyo are exquisite."

"Eh, I don't know how they do things in the outside world, but I don't think it's much different anywhere, is it? I mean, they call it a 'flower viewing' but it's not like anyone cares about the flowers. It's all about drinking and eating. Dumplings before flowers, y'know? Plus, just making a crazy ruckus, like idiots."

"Oh. That sounds closer to the outside world than I thought."

Sumireko looked disappointed.

"Spring's still a little late at the shrine, but it's been getting there at the foot of the mountain. This ain't really the season for flower viewing, but if you really wanna see spring in Gensokyo, why not take a look around?"

...Little by little, the ground was becoming visible under the melting snow. Apparently spring had come to the secondhand store Kourindou a little earlier than the shrine.

"Looks like I won't be needing to use the stove much longer."

Kourindou's Rinnosuke Morichika was already missing that winter gave him an excuse to hole himself up. However, spring changed nothing for him. All that remained was to shut himself up in his cozy store with a good book.

Rinnosuke had gotten a hold of a type of novel he liked. They would describe a murder that could never happen in reality, also known as detective fiction. It was difficult to understand because he wasn't at all familiar with outside world laws, professions, lifestyles, or even the props used, but that itself made them seem fantastic and therefore enjoyable.

And what especially interested him was how the cops and detectives were often portrayed with a cigarette hanging from their mouths. Those scenes of them putting their thoughts together with a cigarette clenched in their lips perfectly depicted just how difficult the case was. It certainly wouldn't be the same if they were sucking on candy canes or chicken skewers instead.

However, while in Gensokyo there are tobacco pipes, and Kourindou had somehow managed to obtain a hookah, the little rolled up version called a cigarette hardly ever turned up in Gensokyo. He assumed it was because they were too disposable to be considered a tool, and would be more likely to end up in the trash than Gensokyo.

Even so, sometimes even extremely rare goods wash up in Gensokyo, and Kourindou stocked a number of authentic cigarettes. Technically they were for sale, but their price was so high that they couldn't be sold. Rinnosuke grabbed one of these expensive cigarettes and lit it with a match.

"Reading a good novel while my eyes are stinging with tobacco smoke. This, my friend, is a life of luxury. It's time to welcome the spring in style."

Ding-a-ling.

"Welcome. Oh, is that you, Sumireko?"

"Hi there. It's colder than I thought here. It's supposed to be spring, but the ground's still covered in snow."

"Unmelted snow is just another sign of spring. It just wouldn't be spring without any snow."

"Oh? Is that how it works? I've always been a city girl."

Sumireko then smelled the smoke wafting through the store and furrowed her brow.

"This smell... is that a cigarette?"

"Indeed. No one seemed to be coming, so I figured I would pass the time in luxury."

Rinnosuke proudly took a deep drag on his cigarette. He must not be used to smoking them, as he started choking a little.

"Seriously? You smoke? Laaame. You can try to act as cool as you like, smoking these days just makes you look ignorant."

"Wh-What?! Really?! So you don't smoke then?"

"Of course not. I'm underage anyway. The youth these days hardly ever smoke, not even delinquents. The only people who smoke are old men who can't get with the times. And this store doesn't have a non-smoking section, does it? If you don't want your merchandise to stink, maybe you should take that outside? Although I guess with all the laws these days there's nowhere to smoke outside either. There are all sorts of harms from secondhand smoke you know. No surprise that everyone hates it."

Rinnosuke was stunned. He'd been able to handle the unpleasantness of smoking because he thought it looked cool, but now that this girl had been so harsh on it, he didn't feel elegant at all. Noticing that Rinnosuke was obviously feeling down, a flustered Sumireko quickly backtracked.

"Er, uh, that's what I've read on the net anyway, from the people who want to ban smoking. They'll look for any excuse to beat up on smokers. Personally, I don't mind it that much, and if you want to ruin your own health then go right ahead. Ah, but I guess if you get sick then you're putting a burden on the universal healthcare system..."

The downcast Rinnosuke hadn't even been listening to her inept attempt to smooth things over.

Feeling awkward, Sumireko retreated from the store.

In the human village, not much snow remained.

Sumireko reflected on her actions while walking down main street.

"Aw, crap. Why'd I have to go that far? Do I really hate smoking that much?"

Perhaps it irritated her because it brought to mind the image of the pseudo-free students of her hometown using flower viewing as an excuse to party with alcohol and cigarettes.

"Mr. Rinnosuke doesn't seem like a minor, and it's his own house, so if he wants to smoke it's his own business. What right did I have to scold him? He's even told me before how valuable cigarettes are over here, so why'd I have to ruin his mood like that? Oh I know, maybe I should bring him some cigarettes tonight to apologize."

That said, she had no idea how she'd be able to purchase them. Minors can't buy cigarettes.

[Don't worry about it. Cigarettes aren't that valuable anyway.]

Someone was whispering deep in her heart.

"Yeah, that's true. I should just forget about this so I can get back to enjoying Gensokyo's spring."

At that moment, she was stopped by a loud voice.

"What are you doing here?! Didn't I tell you to stay put at the shrine?!"

"Oh, huh? So this is where you were heading, Reimucchi?"[1]

It was the Hakurei Shrine Maiden, Reimu Hakurei. She is also in charge of monitoring Sumireko.

"You've really gotta listen to me when I tell you to stay put. Who knows what'll happen to you if you just wander all over the place?"

"C'mon, Marisacchi[2] practically told me to go exploring and see spring."

"Oh right, Marisa was at the shrine too. Can't she just keep her mouth shut? But fine, whatever, I can take you shopping with me."

"Aye aye, ma'am!"

Smoke wafted through Kourindou.

Rinnosuke had gone through more than a few cigarettes while reading his novels. Just like the detectives in the stories, he would sometimes make a complicated expression and rub his eyes. Even he himself wasn't sure if it was just the smoke stinging his eyes or some other feeling.

"The outside world humans sure have gotten dull. They can't even enjoy a luxury like this anymore?"

Given their price, he'd intended to stop smoking after one cigarette, but instead he'd smoked one after another.

"Ha ha ha, it's such a nice day. Maybe this puts me in the red, but it's worth it for the peace of mind."

"You hurt Mr. Rinnosuke?"

Sumireko had consulted Reimu about it after they bought groceries.

"Yeah. I said a bit too much about his smoking. Like... I might have implied that he should just die already."

"Hm, yeah. He may not look it, but that guy can be pretty sensitive."

"So anyway, I left without apologizing, so I want to do something to make up for it."

"Eh, I just said he's sensitive, but I think he'll be fine if you leave him alone."

"But I'd still feel bad. C'mon, please? Can't you lend me a hand? You're the only one I can turn to here."

"...You're pretty selfish, you know. But fine, I'll think of something."

"All right! I knew I could count on you!"

Sumireko was ecstatic, but Reimu didn't mind being relied upon either.

"Then why don't we splurge a little and buy some more food?"

"What are you planning?"

"I was thinking of holding a rehearsal flower viewing party at Kourindou. Mr. Rinnosuke likes to stay home, so he hardly ever comes to the shrine for the banquets, but no one hates parties."

"Huh? Oh, I see..."

Sumireko thought about it. Maybe everyone in Gensokyo was the old-fashioned kind of person who loves alcohol and smoking. They probably had a different way of thinking than the youth of today who'd rather spend time alone on the net than go to parties, or were happier accumulating data than sharing experiences with others.

"If you want to apologize to Mr. Rinnosuke, how about you host an outside world themed party? I'm sure he'd love that."

"An outside world party, huh...? I'm a minor though."

"A minor? You mean, like, a kid?"

"Close enough. But it means I don't know much about alcohol, smoking, or parties."

"Hmm.... That's fine, I guess. I'll just ask someone I know to look into outside world parties for us. You can just say you did it yourself."

"Really? Wow, thanks! Friends really are the best thing to own!"

"Just leave it to me! ...Wait, why I am getting so into this?"

Reimu tilted her head. But no matter how hard she thought, she couldn't come up with a reason for her to be so eager to cooperate with Sumireko.

A few days later.

The party began in the yard of Kourindou, still covered in snow. That said, the only participants were Sumireko, Reimu, Marisa, and Rinnosuke.

"This is... quite an extravagant party. Is this how they hold flower viewings in the outside world?"

"Uh, yeah. This is a type of American party called a barbecue. I see 'em all the time."

Various meats and vegetables were roasting over a giant spit.

"Sorry about the other day. I said too much."

"Oh, you didn't have to worry about that. I was just glad to learn more about smoking in the outside world. But, uh, wow. This meat is amazing."

"I splurged and bought the good stuff! This is the best you can expect from a high school student living off an allowance. I couldn't buy any alcohol or cigarettes..."

"I brought the sake. In honor of the new spring, I splurged and bought us a top-class brew!"

Reimu was in a strangely good mood given that she hadn't drunk any yet.

"Ooh, wow. Living the high life today, are we? Maybe I should've bought something too..."

Marisa was itching to spend her money.

"In that case, might as well bring out the expensive sake I've been saving for a special occasion!"

And right when Rinnosuke was hooked and decided to splurge today too, something happened.

[All right!]

Sumireko heard a voice in her mind cry out in delight.

[I could use a smoke too, while we're at it.]

The voice in her mind reminded her of something uncomfortable. Why in the world would I want to smoke?

[Good job setting up another day for me to wallow in luxury. Thanks, outsider.]

"?! Who's that? Who's talking to me?!"

Sumireko shouted, but there was no one nearby.

Reimu, Marisa, and Rinnsouke stared at her in puzzlement.

[Hey, c'mon now. Don't make such a scene, or you'll ruin this nice party. You can't take back the money you've already spent, so might as well let everyone enjoy it.]

Sumireko was starting to feel unnerved. She continued searching for the invisible presence, but had no idea where she could be.

[The name's Joon Yorigami. The plague god who spends everyone's money. I've got you perfectly possessed now.]

"Perfectly... possessed?"

[Yeah. To put it simply, I'm haunting you. Everyone around me always thinks they'll be happier by spending money. You using up your entire allowance on expensive meat, the shrine maiden buying that sake she'd never dream of buying normally, and the man taking out Kourindou's treasured sake... it's all due to my power.]

"N-No way... A plague god?"

The conversation was too crazy to keep up with, and she had no idea if she was really being possessed or not. Rinnosuke and the others were enjoying the extravagant party too much to pay attention to Sumireko.

[Ah ha ha! But don't worry. You're just a student, so it doesn't seem like you have much else for me to take. So I'll just enjoy this party and be on my way. Oh, right, and could you not tell the shrine maiden about any of this? That wouldn't do anyone any good.]

"You okay? Thank goodness you're awake! You just suddenly collapsed, we were all so shocked."

"Huh? Was I... asleep?"

When Sumireko opened her eyes, it was already nighttime.

"Sorry about that! Looks like you got our drinks mixed up and had some sake. Never thought you'd be such a lightweight though."

Reimu brought her some water as she said this.

"I... drank sake...?"

My memories were vague. Anyway, isn't Gensokyo supposed to be my dream? So what happens when I fall asleep here...?

"Well, I'm fine. My memories are a little fuzzy though. Wait... all the meat's gone!"

The meat had vanished while Sumireko was out.

"Well you sure seemed like you were enjoying it!"

Rinnosuke and the others were relieved that she seemed okay.

"Don't worry, we saved some for you and set it aside so it wouldn't get burnt. I mean, you did buy us all this high quality meat."

High quality... right. Why would I go beyond my means and buy such expensive food like that? Maybe I saw that strange dream because I was searching for an answer to that. That's what I thought at the time, anyway.

It's been quite some time since this happened.

Afterward, an incomprehensible incident known as the "Perfect Possession Incident" swept through Gensokyo.

Thinking back, the incident had already started by then. I wasn't involved in the resolution, but that didn't make it any less frustrating that I had spent all my allowance. On the other hand, you could also say I was lucky to be a mere student, who only had my allowance to lose. With account restrictions like that, I thought that even plague gods could be surprisingly reasonable. 

"I haven't seen Sumireko lately... Has she been visiting the shrine?"

"No...? Come to think of it, I haven't seen her around. So she's not coming here to Kourindou anymore either, huh."

"I see. Well, if the reason she's been coming to Gensokyo in her dreams has stopped, or if she's simply gotten bored, I suppose that's fine. But I'm a little worried."

After the summer heat abated, Gensokyo had fully entered into autumn. Reimu was paying a visit to the poorly ventilated curio shop, Kourindou.

It would be awful if Sumireko had gotten stranded somewhere in Gensokyo, or been attacked by youkai.

"You've got a point. We have no way of visiting her home in the outside world, and we can't go talk to anyone who knows her in her daily life either. So unless she shows up, we have no way to confirm her safety. What a pain."

"So what do we do? Leave it be?"

"Even if she's from the outside world, once she enters Gensokyo she's just another human. And it's my job to keep the humans of Gensokyo safe. So leave it to me!"

Reimu responded with a baseless confidence.

The cool autumn wind blows through the Hakurei Shrine. It's a gathering place for both Incident resolution specialists and those who cause Incidents.

"It's no good. I tried everything I could think of, but still haven't got a good lead. How about you, Reimu?"

Marisa threw up her hands in defeat.

"Nothing on my end either. But I guess we could take the fact that we have no leads as proof that she's not coming to Gensokyo, and just living her life safe in the outside world."

"Sure, but it's not like we can search every last corner of Gensokyo. She coulda been washed away by the river, taken by youkai, or even sent to who-knows-what Otherworld without leaving a trace."

"If she was really gone 'without a trace' then she'd be completely wiped from our minds. It'd be as if she never existed, and there wouldn't be any problem."

"You're thinking like it's a dream that's getting worse, huh? Oh, speaking of dreams..."

"What?"

"This isn't related, but I've heard Sumireko's been showing up in people's dreams. And from multiple people, too."

"Really? Huh. She sticks in people's minds more than you'd expect, huh?"

"They tell me that in these dreams, they're going on a rampage when they get cleanly beaten. And for whatever reason a lot of people are having these dreams. Even people who don't normally see her. Pretty strange coincidence..."

At that moment, both Reimu and Marisa simultaneously had the same thought.

"No way... right?"

"Well, I still think it's a coincidence... I mean, a coincidence where even people who don't know her are seeing her in their dreams..."

On hearing that put into words, they both became certain.

"Don't tell me Sumireko's lost in the dream world?!"

Kourindou had been set up as the "Sumireko Usami's Disappearance Task Force Headquarters." All the information they'd gathered was written on a chalk board. The members are Reimu, Marisa, and Rinnosuke.

"I see. So you're saying that Sumireko is lost in this dream world that everyone is seeing? But isn't the dream world just an imaginary place inside your head?"

"I think so, but I've been there plenty of times myself too. It definitely exists in reality. Maybe it's a contradiction to say it's in "reality" when the dream world and reality are two sides of the same coin though."

Reimu is in disarray over all the things she doesn't quite understand. Marisa is faring no better.

"If it's the dream world, we can't just do a straightforward manhunt. First we need to confirm if Sumireko's actually even there. Which is what we're here to talk about."

Marisa turned to Rinnosuke as she said this.

"Do you have anything that can show someone any dream they want?"

"Any dream you want? Of course I do."

"Seriously?"

"There's something like that among the items that drift in from the outside world."

Rinnosuke disappeared into a mountain of junk.

"Whoa, I was just asking just in case! I can't believe the outside world really has something that controls dreams."

"Well, I'd temper my expectations if I were you..."

Rinnosuke returned carrying something like an eye mask.

"So what is it?"

"I don't how it's supposed to work, but apparently if you wear this eye mask as you go to sleep, you'll have lucid dreams. As a lucid dream is one where everything goes according to your wishes, I think you can use this to see whatever dream you want."

Marisa fiddles with the mysterious eye mask.

"I don't get it, but that sounds awesome! I'm borrowing this!"

"Go right ahead. Frankly, its effectiveness is... well, you'll see."

Perhaps because she had no interest in this item, Reimu was doodling on a piece of paper.

"What are you drawing?"

"You know how people used to put pictures under their pillows of the dreams they wanted to see? I'm drawing a picture of Sumireko."

"Wh-What part of that is Sumireko?"

I couldn't find a single word of praise for that drawing. Whoever put that under their pillow would no doubt see only nightmares. That said, she was dead serious so I said nothing.

Afterward, the two of them went home, hoping to meet Sumireko in their dreams.

They convened at the task force headquarters again the next day. Marisa was excited, but Reimu was a little exhausted.

"So how'd it go?"

"Man, this mask was great! It's pitch black with it on, so I could sleep without any distractions! Thanks to this I woke up completely refreshed!"

"Oh? That's nice. But what about the dreams?"

"Nah, I slept too soundly to see any dreams. But I sure am lucid after getting so much rest!"

I see. So that's "lucid dreaming" in another sense then?

"Then what about you, Reimu? You seem tired though."

"I put this picture under my pillow, but was too busy thinking 'come on out!' to actually fall asleep..."

"Oh, that sounds awful. Maybe you should wear the lucid dreaming eye mask next time."

Both of their plans had failed. But what could they even do if they did meet Sumireko in a dream? And is it really possible for someone to be lost in the dream world in the first place?

Why are these two so sure that her disappearance has something to do with the dream world anyway?

"The dream world definitely exists. I've been there plenty of times."

"You mean, physically?"

"Yeah, physically. Sometimes it's like outer space, other times it's not too different from reality."

"Okay, but do you have any basis for believing that was actually the dream world?"

"Um... Well there was someone there who said 'this is the dream world!'"

"Was that the 'ruler of dreams' you told me about before?"

"Yeah, her. But she's not the only one. Other dream world residents have told me it was the dream world too."

"In that case, wouldn't it be faster to find this 'ruler of dreams' and see if she knows anything? You know, for solving Sumireko's disappearance."

"Oh, right!"

Reimu clapped her hands. However Marisa said "It's even harder to find her though."

The meeting concluded with the sleep-deprived Reimu taking the lucid dreaming mask and Marisa taking home a ruler-of-dreams-esque picture. Rinnosuke thought the search for Sumireko was hopeless.

Ding a ling.

The autumn dusk was coming in quickly as a visitor arrived at Kourindou.

"Oh, if it isn't the mountain hermit? What brings you here today?"

"I have a few questions for you."

The visitor was Kasen Ibara.

"What is it?"

"Has Sumireko Usami not been coming here?"

"Oh, so it's about that. No, I haven't seen her here lately."

"As I thought. It seems she hasn't been able to see any dreams lately."

"Oh, really? Wait, does that mean you've met her recently?"

"Hm? Well, yes, I suppose. She's doing fine."

"Um... Oh, I see. So you're saying you met her in the outside world then?"

"I'll leave that your imagination."

In other words, this hermit had made the forbidden trek to the outside world and confirmed Sumireko's presence. I see, if you can do that then that's clearly the easiest way to handle this. At least we know she's in one piece now.

"Is that so? Thank goodness Sumireko is alright. We've been running a search effort from our end, but even after trying this-and-that, we couldn't find a trace of her. We were even starting to think she might be trapped in the dream world, of all things."

"Trapped in the dream world? What do you mean?"

"Well, it's just Reimu's overactive imagination. Like, she thought Sumireko wasn't appearing in Gensokyo because she's lost in the dream world or something."

"Reimu wouldn't say something like that without a reason. Not to mention that while Sumireko may be in perfect health, I'm told she doesn't see dreams even while asleep, so she's been unable to come to Gensokyo. It seems likely that this is related to Reimu's intuition."

"Dreams? That does sound related, but didn't you say she's not seeing dreams? That's the exact opposite of Reimu's guess that she was trapped in the dream world."

"If this involves dreams, then it's out of our hands here in reality. We'll need to call her in."

"Her?"

"The ruler of dreams, Doremy Sweet."

The next day, at Kourindou.

Kasen Ibara had joined the "Sumireko Usami's Disappearance Task Force" who were gradually uncovering the truth.

"Reimu should be here with Doremy soon."

"And you even said you didn't know where she was. Nice job catching her."

"Apparently she threw a tantrum in a dream, shouting "get out here!" etc, until she got Doremy to promise to come here. All she needed was to use that mask that brings lucid dreams."

"I-I see. So she saw a lucid dream. With that mask."

Ding a ling.

"Sorry for the wait. I brought the ruler of dreams."

"Oh, hello there everyone. I am Doremy Sweet, the ruler of dreams."

Reimu entered the shop with the ruler of dreams. Just by saying the words 'ruler of dreams,' a strange atmosphere covered the store, as if we were no longer in reality.

"This is about Sumireko, right? Yes, it's true that she's lost in Gensokyo's dream world, and it's also true that the real her can no longer see dreams."

"Hm? What do you mean?"

"There are some... extremely complicated circumstances surrounding her dreams. For example, why is she only able to come to Gensokyo while dreaming?"

This is how the ruler of dreams explained it. To Sumireko, Gensokyo was originally the dream world she longed for. At first, coming to Gensokyo was just like coming to the dream world for her. But when she physically crossed the barrier to Gensokyo, she was affected by the 'Urban Legend Incident' and her physical body was split in two, with part of her remaining in Gensokyo. The one left in Gensokyo was her doppelganger.

"So you're saying Sumireko is two people?"

"I believe that whenever she was asleep in the outside world, she shares her consciousness with her doppelganger. As a doppelganger is a being that cannot exist without its original, it would only appear while she was dreaming.

"Hmm.. I don't get it."

Question marks were appearing over everyone's heads.

"That's how it's been until now, at any rate. And while you asked if there were two Sumirekos, there were actually three. The 'Sumireko in the outside world', 'Sumireko's doppelganger in Gensokyo', and the 'dream Sumireko' who you would originally see. As for what's happening now, long story short the dream Sumireko went wild, stole the physical body of the doppelganger, and is now rampaging through the dream world. As a result, the real Sumireko is no longer seeing dreams, and therefore the doppelganger is no longer appearing."

"Meaning... what? Um... So what's the problem, and how do we fix it? Wait, is there even a problem at all?"

Reimu was clearly confused.

"The dream Sumireko is under the impression that she's the original Sumireko and is trying to escape the dream world. If she happens to succeed, she'll switch places with the real one, forget that she was the dream version, and most likely begin to lead an ordinary life. So there's no particular problem."

"U-Um, are you sure that's not a problem?"

Marisa is bewildered as well.

"It's just, the dream residents can be awfully sensitive. They're thinking 'if you can have a real body, then why can't we?!' and are trying to stop her out of jealousy. So the dream world is currently full of these aggressive nightmares. When you wake up from one you're just drenched in sweat. If there's a problem with this situation, then that's it."

Everyone was silent. They felt something was lacking from the ruler of dream's confusing explanation. They couldn't even be sure if Sumireko was missing or not. Completely unsure of the solution, they nonetheless felt the need for closure.

"A-Anyway! So Sumireko isn't missing. She hasn't been attacked by a youkai. Heck, nothing's even really happened. Can we think of it like that?

Reimu voiced her thoughts.

"I don't see a problem with that."

"O-Okay. So this is none of our business then."

Reimu resigned herself.

"H-Hey! Not fair! Don't you remember who roped me into this by shouting "we need to rescue the humans of Gensoyko!"?!

"C'mon, we're saving them, aren't we? I mean, if there's no incident then what are we even saving them from?"

"Hold on."

Kasen Ibara interjected.

"Based on what we heard just now, there's still a human who hasn't been saved."

"Who?"

"Sumireko's doppelganger. We're calling her a doppelganger, but she's no different from the real Sumireko, is she? Hey, Doremy. What happens to the doppelganger if the dream Sumireko takes over for the real one like you were saying?"

"Hmm, let's see... I think that because the dream Sumireko has stolen the doppelganger's body and is trying to get to the outside world, that will give birth to two Sumirekos in the real world. When they meet, one of them will probably be annihilated. Furthermore, I believe Sumireko would never appear in Gensokyo again, because her doppelganger would be gone."

Doremy said this with a smile.

After that, the "Sumireko Usami's Disappearance Task Force Headquarters" changed its name to "Saving Sumireko Usami's Doppelganger Task Force Headquarters" and continued their strategizing.

That said, since only one of them could freely interact with the dream world, their strategies mostly involved just leaving it to her.

"While the simplest plan would be to defeat her in the dream world and wait for a new dream Sumireko to manifest, for some mysterious reason reason she's become absurdly powerful, and ordinary methods will no longer work. Perhaps her belief that she's the real one has give her intense feelings about not wanting to be defeated, or perhaps someone else has been working from behind the scenes."

"Aren't you the ruler of dreams? Can't you just forcibly remake the dream or something?"

Reimu seemed frustrated.

"I can't interfere to that extent. I may call myself a ruler, but I'm closer to the zookeeper of a zoo full of dream residents. A zookeeper can't simply make a new animal. I could spur the other dream residents to fight her though."

"Okay, then I guess our only choice is to get someone strong to defeat her for us. Oh, I know! If we want to win, just cheat and have a bunch of 'em attack her at once!"

"Well, I suppose I could ask, but whether or not that actually happens will be up to the dream dweller's whims. Everyone's so free-spirited after all."

"I hate having to rely on others... Isn't there some kind of better way?"

Rinnosuke, who had been lost in thought this whole time, suddenly spoke up.

"By the way, what's happening right now to Gensokyo's Sumireko, the one we've been calling a doppelganger?"

"Well, the dream Sumireko took her body, so she's a disembodied spirit, unable to move. Why?"

"Is there any way she could move in the dream world?"

"It's not impossible. Wait, don't tell me you mean...?"

"In that case, isn't Sumireko the only one who can solve her own problem? Let her decide which one's the real one, or which one deserves a real body."

"You're saying let the doppelganger and the dream Sumireko fight it out? But what if the doppelganger loses?"

Reimu seemed panicked

"Then I doubt Sumireko will appear in Gensokyo ever again. I don't see a problem, so shall we try it?"

Doremy smiled.

"Fine, why not? This isn't the outside world Sumireko's problem. She never went missing in the first place. Whatever happens, happens."

It had been about three weeks since I'd visited Gensokyo.

For whatever reason, I stopped being able to see dreams, so I couldn't come to Gensokyo. But nothing had changed in Gensokyo over the last three weeks. Kourindou was the same as ever.

"Man, it's really been a while, hasn't it? It's so refreshingly cool here in Gensokyo!"

"Oh, so you're alright? I was worried."

"I just stopped seeing dreams. I thought it might be a sleep disorder, so I went to see a doctor about it, but then I suddenly started seeing them again. I still don't know why though, so it's a little scary."

"Right. For all you know you fought and won against something in your dreams."

"? Speaking of fighting though, I was going through the photos on my smartphone, and look, isn't this Reimu? And there are a bunch of others too, all sorts of youkai fighting... Someone else must've used my smartphone, right?"

My smartphone album was filled danmaku and youkai I'd never seen before. All sorts of things were recorded.

"Wow, what an awful picture of danmaku."

"It's an amazing picture! Next time I'll have to bring an old camera and take a bunch of pictures of everyone. Maybe I'll become Instagram famous!"

In addition to the pictures, my smartphone also had recorded a diary that I didn't write. After reading it, I couldn't explain why, but I had the feeling that during the time I wasn't dreaming, I'd been seeing nothing but nightmares. 

I get the feeling that everyone in Gensokyo has been acting distant lately. I think this is because of the three weeks when I couldn't visit Gensokyo, but it brings to mind an uncomfortable feeling, like getting stuck in a parallel world where everything is slightly off. Today I'm visiting the Hakurei Shrine again, but Reimu's face looks a little gloomy.

"So anyway, there's this fireworks festival happening near where I live, but it isn't exactly easy to go to a fireworks festival by yourself, you know. So I'd love it if you could come with me, Reimucchi."

"An outside world fireworks festival, huh? I wouldn't mind going, but..."

"Can't you just come to the outside world like you did that other time?"

The place I met my very first friend in Gensokyo was in the outside world. At the time, Reimu had come out to the outside world. She's always evasive about it, but there's definitely SOME way for them to leave Gensokyo.

"A-Anyway, have you noticed anything strange on your end, Sumireko?"

"Huh? Not really."

"Oh. Well, that's good... But if you ever noticed anything, let me know, okay?"

This. This is what I'm talking about. I feel like I've had a lot of these... talks, not substantial enough to be called a conversation, that sound like they're searching for something.

It's just, well, this sort of thing happens from time to time in the outside world. A fashionable new drama, a popular musician, a dessert that appeared in some photos, a famous video content creator, light otaku content... Humans in the outside world seem to be animals who can't survive without being able to bond over some topic or another. Especially in an insular society like a school, where in just a short amount of time, you could end up developing an interest in something outside the normal, shared hobbies, enter a world only you find fun, and find yourself facing social extinction. It happens all the time. And I guess it happens in Gensokyo too.

"Oh, but, if you're asking about strange things happening, I guess I did find my smartphone full of all these pictures I don't remember taking."

"Do you mean pictures of danmaku?"

I show her my phone. Reimu doesn't seem very surprised.

"Yeah, that's right. But it's not just danmaku, there are also youkai I've never met. I wonder who took these."

"That... sure is mysterious, huh?"

With just that one careless joke, the curt Reimu's attitude seemed unnatural.

The small secondhand goods shop, Kourindou. The only customer was the outsider, Sumireko Usami.

The owner, Rinnosuke, was conflicted.

"So anyway, Reimu's been all acting all distant. Like she's hiding something. The only one who's acting the same as always is you, Rinnosuke."

"Is that so?"

"C'mon, can't you just tell me already? What happened during the three weeks I was gone? Does everyone know why I couldn't come then?"

For three weeks, she had gone missing from Gensokyo and a search was conducted. As a result, we learned that the Sumireko Usami in front of me is neither the original, nor her dream self. She's something called a Doppelganger. In other words, she's a youkai-like being. At the very least, she's not human. The real Sumireko Usami should be asleep in the outside world, even now.

But she herself believes that she's human. It would be easy enough to tell her her circumstances and what had happened, but would that really be right? Plus, it seems that even Reimu and the others aren't sure how to treat her. And if she is a youkai, should she be the target of extermination? No conclusion was forthcoming.

However, she seems to share sensations and memories with the real one, and each of her consciousnesses don't seem to be independent. For that reason, and because we don't know what effect if will have if we reveal her true identity, we've been doing our best not to rock the boat.

Personally, as long as she isn't hostile, I see no reason to treat her like an enemy. And since she herself already has doubts related to her Dream Syndrome, I'd love to fill in the three week gap in her memory for her, but...

"During the three weeks you were gone, we were all pretty worried about you, and even formed a search party. Well, I say "search" but since we can't go to the outside world, it was limited to Gensokyo."

"Oh? So that's what happened. I made everyone worry about me, huh..."

"We'd be in big trouble if you were caught by a youkai, after all. Even the outside world would be in an uproar. So it was a big relief when you came back."

"It kinda sounds like you're trying to pull a fast one on me, but still, thank you very much. But in the end, what DID happen those three weeks?"

"I don't know the details. Maybe you were just in poor health or couldn't properly dream or something?"

"So it's a matter of my health, huh? You're right though, I kinda feel like I was having nightmares... Can't remember 'em though."

Sumireko was starting to get annoyed at this inconclusive conversation.

"Well, whatever! There's no use thinking about all that! So everyone's acting all distant as a backlash from worrying about me then? Then I just need to start being thankful for that. I'll think of it as a plus."

Sumireko returned to her usual cheerful self. It seems she's always been good at self-healing. Perhaps the youth of the outside world all have high self-control.

*Ding a ling*

"Welcome... oh it's Marisa."

"That's right, I'm your god. In other words, a customer."[1]

I've heard the phrase "the customer is your god" before, but never of a customer declaring herself god. Of course, Marisa Kirisame isn't a customer either.

"Ooh, you're here too, Sumireko? Good, good."

"Good? What do you mean?"

"Y'know, you went missing that one time, so everyone's all sensitive to it. Like you might disappear the second we take our eyes off you. Just seein' you at all is a little relaxin'."

"Sorry about that. Sounds like I made you worry."

Sumireko had an apologetic, slightly embarrassed expression.

"Whoa there, maybe that came out wrong? WE'RE the ones who got worried all on our own. You don't need to worry about it."

Thanks to Marisa's unhelpful follow-up, the mood became a little awkward.

"By the way Marisa, what are you here for today?"

"Nothing cool's been happenin' lately, so Reimu's down in the dumps. So I figured we should hold some kind event before she turns to villainy. And she's real close, let me tell you. So I was lookin' for anythin' that might lead to somethin'."

"What the heck? If she's bored, why not just hold a festival?"

"Cuz she's always holdin' festivals. She's stuck in a rut. That's why we need some kinda centerpiece. Like, even puttin' some mysterious tool you've got here on display should be enough."

I looked over my store. I'm proud to be the number one stop for mysterious articles in Gensokyo. Naturally, I have more than a few that could entertain someone.

"I see. Then how about this one?"

"Looks like a big ol' helmet."

"Those are... Those are VR..."

Sumireko seemed surprised to see the helmet.

"Ah yes, those are 'VR Goggles'. I can't believe I'm seeing them in an old antique shop. It's such a mismatch."

I put them on my head. My vision was completely blocked, covering the world in darkness. A little while later, a rainbow of flowers blooming in a beautiful meadow stretched out before me. Or so I felt.

"These make it so that 'You can experience unrealistic scenery as if it were real.' I'm currently seeing a beautiful meadow."

"Whoa! That sounds awesome!"

Marisa took the VR Goggles from me as if stealing them away. Then she put them on.

"Let's see here... It's just pitch black?"

"That's normal. It's a device that cuts you off from all light to make it easier experience the images you want to. I think."

"Hmm... Still not seeing anythin'."

"It relies on the power of your imagination."

"Oooh! I'm startin' to see somethin'! I'm flying over an endless stretch of water! Is this the ocean?! It's the ocean!"

Marisa was excited. Sumireko glanced over with an icy gaze.

"C'mon, it's not even plugged in. There's no power. Of course it's pitch black."

"Huh? But I really am seein' this stuff? I feel like I am anyway."

Now that she mentions it, I get the feeling that if you wanted pitch blackness, you could just close your eyes.

"Man, flying over the ocean was awesome!" Marisa took off the goggles, satisfied.

"If you had that much fun with unplugged VR goggles, maybe the people in Gensokyo have way too much imagination. In that case, I think it's a bit early to introduce VR at a festival."

Sumireko remembered a VR she had seen that let you experience being inside a firework.

"Oh, I know, how about an ordinary fireworks festival?"

"Fireworks festival? I get the fireworks, but how does the festival come in? What's that like?"

"Let's see... They launch these giant fireworks, and- Oh right, there's a big fireworks festival near where I live. Want to come with me?"

"Sounds nice, I'd love to, but... It's in the outside world, right? No can do."

"Huh? But haven't you been outside before?"

"That was, like, an accident. We can't usually come and go freely."

"That's too bad. Oh well. I'll take pictures, and you can look at those."

A few days later, at the Hakurei Shrine. Reimu, Marisa, and Sumireko are there.

As promised, she's showing them the pictures she took of the fireworks festival.

"Wow, that's pretty. So these are outside world fireworks, huh?"

Sumireko was showing the pictures on her smartphone.

"Amazing, isn't it? I mean, it's just the small, local fireworks festival near my house, but still, their biggest shakudan was just crazy!"

"Oh? So just how big is it then?"

"These were taken from pretty far away... I wonder, how big IS it? One sec."

With the bad habit of looking things up before thinking, she punched the words "fireworks size" into the screen.

"Oh, right, no signal. Well, I'm sure they're amazingly huge. Yeah."

Reimu and Marisa eagerly snapped up the images of fireworks the likes of which they'd never seen, but seemed unable to grasp how they'd even begin to actually prepare fireworks like that. At that moment, a mysterious impulse rose up in Sumireko, and behavior even she couldn't understand showed itself. On the smartphone, Reimu swiped from a picture of fireworks to a picture of something else.

"Oh? But this one looks pretty easy to dodge."

Said Reimu.

"C'mon, firework ain't danmaku you know... wait, that's danmaku!"

"Yeah, those are the photos of spellcards I took in Gensokyo..."

Thinking they were pictures of the fireworks festival, they looked pictures of spellcards. As a result, Reimu saw spellcards as fireworks, and came up with the idea of a danmaku fireworks festival.

Days later, it was the day before the danmaku contest labeled an evening fireworks festival was to be held. Sumireko was at Kourindou.

"It's finally tomorrow, huh? The fireworks festival born from your idea."

"It wasn't MY idea, it was Reimucchi'."

"The humans think that, but I hear a lot of the youkai think it was your idea. The outsider. Do you know why?"

"Umm... Why?"

"Because of the pictures used on the fliers. They're obviously the ones taken by your phone."

"Oh, of course. Wait, but I didn't take those pictures... maybe the subjects of the photos know who took them."

"Those subjects say that you're the one who took them though."

"..."

"Do you know what I'm trying to say?"

"The pictures on my smartphone... basically you're saying I took them? I can't remember it at all, but... maybe I have split personalities or something...? That's like something out of a psychological horror story..."

Sumireko looked troubled.

The firework festival had already caused some worry. More than a few youkai seemed displeased, and there was even a rumor that some radical youkai were plotting something. Reimu had been told, but her response of "don't worry, that's why we have powerful people gathered as judges" had failed to ease their worries.

But I had a guess as to who this person they say is plotting something is.

"You're serving as a judge. It might be in a little dangerous for you at the festival."

Seeing her resolve, I told her the truth.

"I don't know if you're just pretending not to know, but you're not the real Sumireko."

"What...?"

"You're a youkai, a doppelganger. The real Sumireko is in the outside world."

"...?!"

"The photos on your smartphone were taken during a time only the doppelganger wouldn't remember. Reimu and the others know this."

"But... I have memories of the outside world. I remember my childhood. This is ridiculous."

"Well, I said you were a doppelganger, but you share her memories, and I doubt even the real one could tell the difference. But haven't you ever felt it was weird? The phenomenon where you only come to Gensokyo in your dreams? And not just spiritually like a living spirit or an astral projection, but with a real flesh and blood body. It makes no sense. We only realized this recently, but the Sumireko in Gensokyo, ie: YOU, was a doppelganger the whole time."

"..."

Sumireko was speechless. Well, obviously. She'd just been convinced that she's an imposter, of course she'd shaken.

"Well, it's not that important, really. Apparently doppelgangers share both spirits and flesh with the real thing. And when you wake up, you'll have the doppelganger's memories too. So you can think of it as having a second real one...Try not to feel too down, Sumireko."

"You're saying I'm...the me right here is a youkai?"

"Yeah. Perhaps 'youkai' is going a little too far though. Maybe 'occult'?"

"Alright! I'm so happy!"

"Huh?"

Sumireko was unexpectedly cheerful. It was almost disappointing.

"I've always thought I was special, not a normal human. That I was definitely some kind of unique being. A human schoolgirl while awake, but a youkai while asleep! This is the best thing that's ever happened to me! Now I'm officially part of Gensokyo!"

The next day. The day of the fireworks festival.

Sumireko had been enthusiastically collecting her observations on the danmaku into a book.

Personally, I had been wondering what the purpose of this fireworks festival was. While Reimu wanted it to attract visitors, actually there was someone else who was profiting from it even more. That would be Sumireko. Didn't Sumireko's doppelganger half have its own consciousness too, and hadn't she enticed Reimu into holding this danmaku fireworks festival to give her an opportunity to come into contact with even more youkai?

Sumireko had been able to take pictures without being aware of it. So the doppelganger must have some kind of consciousness too. I thought we needed to continue to observe her. 

"So listen to this. People are going to the zoo together during summer break even in high school! They're all so childish, it's awful."

"Oh? The zoo, you say? I've read about those. Something about how they're 'Human-centric facilities that make animals live their whole lives in captivity in the name of conservation', I think?"

"Um... What kind of books are you reading?"

With a chilly breeze and cirrocumulus clouds framing the depth of the sky, the Hakurei Shrine was deeply into autumn.

Sumireko Usami was idly chatting with Marisa Kirisame while they both waited for the head of the shrine to return.

"Oh right, so Gensokyo doesn't have any zoos, does it? Makes sense. It'd be kinda cool if it did though."

"I like to go see it if it did."

Sumireko wondered which animals would be the most popular in a zoo in Gensokyo. They may be classics, but she couldn't picture them being delighted by herbivores like elephants and giraffes. This may just be her own bias, but she felt they'd be best suited for carnivores. She imagined humans unafraid of youkai beasts trembling in fear at the sight of lions and cheetahs.

"Hey Marisacchi,[1] what animal would you like to see, if you went to a zoo?"

"Hmm, let me think... I guess it's gotta be a panda."

"Huh?"

"Did I remember the name? You know, that big, black and white, fluffy-looking thing."

"No, that's definitely a panda. I'm just surprised."

"Why? There ain't any other animal so huge yet adorable. Like, they don't even know how to live in the wild. Ain't zoos places that are supposed to preserve animals like that?"

"I think you might have a distorted view of what zoos are... But when I said I was surprised, I just meant that I figured you'd like some... stronger kind of animal. Like lions or cheetahs."

"Lions are basically like tigers, right? There's someone who owns a tiger so I see 'em now and then, and we're swarming with wolves around here. Besides, youkai beasts are way more ferocious than most of these things, so I guess I'm just sick of fighting predators."

"Sick of fighting predators. Now that's a fresh perspective."

That's when they saw Reimu Hakurei running towards them from the shrine's torii gates.

"Rinnosuke's looking for you, Sumireko. It didn't sound urgent, so you should head there later."

"Fine, I got it. Maybe he's confused about how to use some new machine again."

"Probably. He's always been pretty awful at machines, even though he runs a secondhand good shop."

Rinnosuke Morichika, the owner of the store Kourindou, has the power to know an object's name and purpose. It appears that lately he's been relying on Sumireko to explain any unfamiliar tools.

"Anyway, sorry for changing the subject Reimucchi,[2] but what kind of animal would you like to see if you could visit a zoo?"

"A zoo, huh? You mean a place like that mountain hermit's mansion?"

"Whoa, is that what the hermit's place is like?"

"Yeah, she keeps all kinds of beasts, like eagles and tigers and other meat eaters."

Sumireko imagined a hermit taking care of animals.

"No, Reimu, zoos are places that preserve animals that would naturally-"

Sumireko covered Marisa's mouth.

"That's wrong too. Zoos are exciting places that gather up unusual animals from all across the world. So you'd be able to see animals that don't live in Gensokyo."

"Animals from outside Gensokyo, huh? Then it's gotta be pandas for me. Or Mr. Elephant with the long nose."

"Yup. For sure." Marisa added her approval.

"I was dimly aware of this before, but... You two have the same knowledge of animals as a preschooler, don't you?"

Kourindou. A secondhand goods shop in Gensokyo. It mainly deals in items that wash up in Gensokyo from the outside world.

Rinnosuke was worrying over a strange item he happened to get ahold of.

By appearance it looked like a plush animal, but it was made of a hard material and no matter how he tried he couldn't see it as cute. It was an eerie four-legged machine not unlike a dog, and while it seemed to have some sort of consciousness, its facial expressions absolutely could not be read.

He understood that it was a dog-shaped robot used as a pet. And he could easily imagine how it would be used as a pet. It was a robot made for people who wanted to avoid taking care of a dog, for whatever reason. Probably for religious reasons.

However, that wasn't what bothered him. Unless Sumireko arrived soon and taught him how to use it, he wouldn't be able to relax.

The bell on the door swayed in the breeze, but the sound he was waiting for never came.

At the Hakurei shrine, the conversation about animals had fully bloomed.

"Whoa, so what we call wolves are extinct in the outside world?"[3]

"Yup. So from my perspective, the fact that they're ordinary in Gensokyo is... wait, are there otters too?"

"You see them all the time down by the river. They like to play with the kappa."

"I knew it. Actually, otters are extinct in Japan too."

"So in the outside world, they have so little food that they needed to hunt the otters to extinction?" Marisa put on a grim face.

"I'm pretty sure it wasn't because of over-hunting... It think their natural habitat was destroyed. There weren't enough places for them to live, or something like that. There just wasn't nearly enough diversity."[4]

"I see. So it was diversity after all?"

"Makes sense. It's always that danged diversity."

It appeared that the two, no, three of them had no idea what diversity meant.

"Speaking of wolves and otters though, them and the other animals put us through a real tough time recently."

"Reimucchi, worried about damage caused by animals? That's a new one."

"Not just ordinary animals, I'm talking about ones from Hell. No, wait, the Animal Realm."

Reimu summarized the incredibly bizarre animal war that had occurred over the summer.

The animals of the Animal Realm are all managed as the slaves of organizations, and they fight an endless, purposeless war in the name of corporate growth. Humans are treated even worse, locked up in a facility called the "Primate Spirit Garden" in the name of protection, artificially prolonging their extinction. Reimu had fought the god idolized by the humans of the Primate Spirit Garden while possessed by an animal spirit.

But not even that god could be called an ally of humanity, and obviously not of the animals either. In the animals realm, everyone treated anything as permissible if it would help them win. A world ruined by "survival of the fittest."

"A-Animals formed organizations and protected humans...?"

"Animal spirits. We're talking about spirits here. The power balance between spirits is completely different from the power balance of flesh and blood animals, so it's no surprise if you don't get it."

"But this is a whole new otherworld, other than Gensokyo. I think I'm getting a little curious."

"Whoa there, even if you're curious, you really shouldn't go, for your own sake. The people there will seriously use anything or anyone. I'm scared to even imagine what they'd do if they found a human from the outside world. There might be spirits who hold a grudge for their buddies getting slaughtered, or even for them being kept alive in zoos cuz of that. Maybe they'll even keep you alive for eternity outside the wheel of reincarnation, for some even more terrifying reason."

Sumireko shuddered. When she thought about animals retaining their consciousness after death and making a human-like world, the fact that humans were on the bottom of the hierarchy was no surprise. And if she started seeing zoos from that perspective, she felt like she'd be even less able to casually enjoy the zoo with her friends.

"But still, it's pretty worrying. Those Animal Realm animal organizations must be up to something in Gensokyo, because they keep inching closer and closer. It's pretty hard to turn away the ones with no hostility."

"Oh? So I might end up meeting one of those animals from the Animal Realm, huh? I'd better be careful..."

Kourindou, the next day.

I was completely and utterly exhausted.

This too was of course due to the mysterious pet-type robot. As long as I didn't know how to use it, I wouldn't be able to sleep, even at night.

"Ha ha ha! So you don't know how to use this robot, huh?"

"Precisely. Thanks to this thing, I've lost all my peace and quiet."

Sumireko was laughing. Seeing this, I became a little uneasy.

"It's a pet robot. You don't use it. It's easier and safer to take care of than a real pet... really a pet for humans. It's just a thing, I mean, a pet, that you look at and love."

"I just need to love it? Absurd. This robot wanders around 24 hours a day, destroying my precious merchandise. If I try to lock it up it somehow escapes, and if I kick it out it ends up back in here before I know it. The reason I called you here is less to learn how to use it, but more how to stop it."

"Don't be ridiculous. It's a little sad, but it's just a robot so if you cut off the power it'll stop. Let's see... where's the switch...?"

Sumireko wrestled with the robot. It looked as though she were being attacked by an unidentified creature.

"The power switch doesn't work. Maybe it's buggy? Then we'll have to take out the batteries..."

Sumireko continued wrestling. Seeing her so perplexed after she'd treated me as a fool was somehow calming.

"Okay, got the battery out. Now it should be-"

The pet robot leapt to its feet, and perhaps because it was lighter now without the battery, ran circles around Sumireko.

!?
"Wh-What's going on?! It's moving without any power! I-Is it a ghost?!"

Upon being rushed by the robot moving without any driving force, Sumireko fainted.

"Oh, I see. So I shouldn't have consulted Sumireko, but the Hakurei Shrine."

Reimu had set up a barrier around Kourindou.

That said, it was merely wrapped with a shimenawa. Perhaps this would be able to stop youkai, but a robot is a different matter. From here on, Reimu would be performing history's first ever robot warding.

Sumireko seemed to have hit her head a little, but she had completely recovered and was watching the robot with excitement. The robot itself was obediently idling in the center of the room.

"From my research, this pet robot was the very first model, and it's discontinued these days. It's no mystery how it ended up passing into fantasy."

Reimu carefully watched the robot. Somewhere along the way her expression had relaxed.

"I can definitely sense some kind of spirit..."

Reimu opened her palm and approached the robot. Its appearance was definitely that of a puppy.

"I-It's so cute... I mean, it seems to be a variety of tsukumogami."

Tsukumogami are tools that turned into youkai after a long time.

"But it doesn't sound like it's been around that long, and either way tsukumogami are born to take revenge on humans. This robot shows no sign of that."

"So what is it then?"

"All I can think of is that it was originally designed like this."

"You mean it's running off of just a backup battery? What an engineer's dream!"

Despite saying that, Sumireko immediately changed her mind.

"But no, I can't see that happening. The tools of the outside world aren't like magical tools. It's unthinkable that it'd still be moving so energetically after so long without power."

The robot ran around innocently. Perhaps because it lacked vocal cords, or maybe its speaker were broke, but it never made the slightest sound. This made it a little creepy.

"I guess the only other thing I can think of is that it's possessed by a spirit or something."

"And suddenly it turns to the occult!"

Sumireko was celebrating, but in Gensokyo dealing with spirit possession is an everyday occurrence. It's quite bothersome. If souls aren't dealt with properly, all that does is cause unforeseen secondary harm.

"First I'd like to figure out what kind of spirit you are, and why you're possessing this. Well, since you're possessing a dog-shaped object and moving like a dog, I'm pretty sure you're a dog spirit."

Reimu mumbled as she held onto the adorable robot and smiled.

"...What is she doing?"

Sumireko whispered, so as not to disturb Reimu.

"Is she pretending to be communicating with the soul?"

"Pretending, huh?"

It probably didn't matter if someone who couldn't talk to spirits saw this as pretending. It's fine as long as we arrive at some arbitrary answer by any means. This wasn't the sort of thing we'd be checking to see if it's true.

"...Well, this is a surprise. I can't communicate with the spirit possessing it at all. We can't come to an understanding."

Reimu's expression became serious.

"Either it's not possessed and moving for some other reason, or the soul possessing it has some reason to hide its existence. Other than that, um..."

Reimu held her head in her arms. It looked like we weren't going to get a satisfactory explanation.

The well-maintained grounds gave a more modern impression than the Hakurei Shrine. Worshippers could also be glimpsed here and there.

The Myouren Temple, a large temple near the human village. Despite its recent construction, the air it gave off was enough for some people call it an ancient temple.

The matter of the robot's soul being apparently beyond the Hakurei Shrine Maiden, I turned my hopes to the Myouren Temple. It was quite suitable, as they performed not only funerals, but memorial services for tools. Reimu had extremely reluctantly recommended coming here.

On seeing the pet robot, the chief priest, Byakuren Hijiri, immediately thought it was a request for a memorial service, but seemed to quickly realize that it wasn't.

"Where is this from?"

"The exact location is a trade secret, but there's a place where I often find tools from the outside world."

"I'm astonished. This is quite the unusual case. It's no surprise the shrine maiden was unable to communicate with the possessing spirit. This puppy is alive."

"Huh? Alive?"

"To be precise, I believe she's alive. Most likely, the spirit of a puppy given life in the world of the living ended up in this robot before it could be born, for whatever reason. What we would call reincarnation. From the dog's perspective, I'd imagine she woke up to find herself mysteriously moving the body of this robot. Rest assured, I sense no malice whatsoever. It's rare, but sometimes these things happen."

"I see. Thank you."

I wasn't quite sure what the difference was between this and spiritual possession, but the religious often spoke like this. If I'd asked probing questions about my doubts, I'd be digging myself into an even deeper grave. The wise choice is to avoid pursuing it any further.

"So, how would you like to proceed? Since you came to the temple, I assume you were considering a memorial service, but..."

"So that's what happened." Said Reimu.

Reimu and Sumireko had come to Kourindou to hear the details. The robot roamed freely within the store.

"So it's no different from a real, living dog. Holding a memorial service would be killing it, which is a bit much for me. Separating the soul from the robot would be the same thing too. I could never do that to an innocent puppy."

Reimu was nodding.

"But, well, it's not really like a real dog, is it? A real dog has to eat or it'll die. But this robot can move without any power, right? It doesn't need electricity, but what about food?"

Sumireko asked Reimu the most important question.

"If it works the same as a tsukumogami, it shouldn't need energy because it moves just from spiritual power. Spiritual power gets absorbed from nearby creatures or nature, I guess. So for this puppy, it'd be stealing it from Rinnosuke."

"I knew he seemed tired. Is that why?"

"That level of fatigue is just business as usual!" Everyone laughed.

"So anyway, you're planning on keeping her here, right? Have you decided on a name?"

"Huh? A name?"

"Everyone gives their pet a name! Should I name it then? Maybe something like Aibo[5]?"

"No, please don't. I'll think of something. She's my pet, after all."

Eventually this robot dog who'd started out so rambunctious started learning to listen to what I said. Maybe she thought of me as her parent.

The sudden appearance of a pet caused a lot of trouble at first, but I slowly came to think of her as no different from an ordinary dog. Reimu had told me to be careful of animal spirits for the time being, but I wasn't even sure what I was supposed to be careful of exactly.

I decided to name her "Laika". Apparently this is the name of the outside world's most famous dog, as well as the dog that's experienced the most loneliness. She may be a robot dog living in the separate land called Gensokyo, but I don't intend to let her ever experience loneliness this time.

It would be nice if she eventually grew up to a watchdog for Kourindou, but maybe that's a bit much to ask of her robot body. 

---The cherry blossoms had fallen, and the Hakurei Shrine was wrapped in fresh greenery.

The new leaves of spring contain a magic power that gives humans vitality. It's the season that's best suited for beginning something new. Sumireko Usami, a student from the Outside World, was paying a visit to Reimu Hakurei, the shrine's resident shrine maiden.

"*Sigh*... Part-time stuff, huh. Maybe I ought to start doing something, too?"

"Something to do part-time? You mean a job?"

"Yeah. I've seen some other students starting part-time jobs lately. I mean, it's technically against the rules, but..." [2]

"You did mention that you were in school, right? So do even students get jobs? Don't your parents pay for things for you?"

"Hmm, good question. It's true that they're not all just getting jobs for the sake of money. It's, like... practice for getting into society, I'd say? They think that having a job makes them look more mature. They get bored of a childhood where all they're ever expected to do is study, and they're desperate to grow up faster than everyone else. That might be it. Of course, I'd be lying if I said I didn't feel kinda pressured too, seeing everyone else getting jobs. But when it comes to work that you can do as a high-schooler, it's gotta be a part-time thing. 'Course, once you're an adult, you might start hating work altogether. So I guess I'd want to do it while I still have that chance..."

Sumireko rambled on as if trying to explain herself, then turned her face towards Reimu's.

"Hey, speaking of. You've already got a job, right, Reimucchi? As a shrine maiden."

"Huh? Er, well... I suppose so."

"Man, the humans in Gensokyo are so cool. You've all got jobs from such a young age."

"Y-you think so?"

"Like, you've got your shrine maiden job, your youkai-exterimation job, and you do a bunch of other stuff like resolving incidents too. And you're properly contributing to society with all of it."

"Well, it's not like it's that impressive..."

Reimu was embarrassed by the sudden compliments.

"The only part-time jobs you can get as a high-schooler are stuff like cash register duty. Nothing fancy like defeating youkai and protecting humanity..."

Sumireko pictured herself working at a convenience store, bored out of her mind, and sighed.

"Speaking of whiiich. How are those jobs working out for you on this front, anyway?"

Sumireko formed a circle with her thumb and index finger, and leered over at Reimu. As Reimu saw this, she made the same circle gesture in response.

"...Yeah. It's a pretty flashy job, so youkai and the like give me enough of it to make me sick of the whole thing."

At this, Sumireko's face lit up.

"Enough to make you sick of it?!"

"Oh, absolutely. It's such a pain. It takes everything I've got just to dodge the stuff. The danmaku, I mean."

"Danmaku!" Sumireko nearly fell off her seat.

"No, not that! I'm miming a coin, see? I'm trying to ask how much you're earning."

Reimu's face turned slightly red at her misunderstanding.

"Oh, money? Um, well, err..."

"Well, I guess you don't really look like you're earning all that much, anyway."

"Money... why would you ask about that?"

"Why? 'Cause I'm curious, duh! When you're looking for a job, practically the number-one most important thing to consider is money. Wages."

"Ah, I see. I do want money, that's true. But my job isn't something I chose so that I could get money out of it. The shrine maiden thing is something I was born to do, and it's not like anyone pays me a cent for resolving incidents, either."

"Wait, so it's all volunteer work?"

"Maybe? But when I think about it, people do give me money in some form or another, in the end. And the shrine does get a boost in donations, to an extent... But, I've always thought a 'job' is something that you do because, well, it's what you do."

"Hmmm. Well, doesn't that sound cool. Very upstanding. Jobs are things you do for the sake of it, and not for money, huh...?"

"Didn't you say that just a minute ago? Students don't work for the sake of money, and all that."

"Huh? No, no, that was separate thing! ...Well, no. Maybe it wasn't? I kind of lost where I was going with this."

"Kourindou," a curio shop located near the miasma-filled Forest of Magic.

The main products it deals in are objects that drift in from the Outside World. The shopkeeper, Rinnosuke Morichika, was up to his neck in new goods that needed sorting.

"...This many computers, and they're all dead inventory. I can hardly sell any of these... It's a shame, but I suppose I'll have to thin things out."

He looked at the huge pile of computers. There were vertical cases, horizontal cases, laptops, even the odd tablet-- all of varying generations and specifications, and all in complete disarray.

"That's a tall order in its own right, though. Honestly, how am I supposed to sort these? Sumireko did say 'the smaller ones are newer and higher-performance, so they're worth more,' but when it comes to your typical antique shop, products ought to be worth more the older and larger they are. In the end, I haven't got the slightest idea about which of these I ought to keep and which I ought to throw out."

Rinnosuke decided to call in a specialist some time soon, and quickly gave up on doing any organizing himself.

"...And thus, I've brought you here today for one very important reason. I'd like you to appraise the personal computers I have in stock."

Sumireko was genuinely surprised.

"Oh my gosh, you've got so many! It's like an entire shop in here!"

"I mean, it is a shop."

"Oh, right. Technically. Sorry, I meant that it's like a whole second-hand computer shop."

Sumireko triumphantly set about the task that'd been requested of her.

"...I've never even seen most of these models. I'm sure you could get a good price for some of these if you took them to the right place, but... I'd say that most of these are probably just scrap?"

"By 'scrap', do you mean they're garbage?"

Rinnosuke sighed.

"Yeah, pretty much. Garbage. ...Huh? This laptop's got some kind of printer thing on it. Do lappies like this even exist?"

Sumireko moved to pick up a large, oddly-shaped laptop with a small screen, which she'd never seen before.

"That's a fairly stupid question. It's existing on the table right in front of you."

"Hmm... huh?! Gah, heavy! This thing's way too chunky! I've literally never seen a lappy like this!"

"You haven't? So it's your first time seeing it as well, then. Incidentally, it happens to be known as a 'word processor'-- a 'WorPro' for short. We practically have mountains of them in stock." [4]

Rinnosuke had the ability to recognize any object's name just by looking at it. Sumireko, however, seemed puzzled even after hearing its name.

"A WorPro...? What the heck is that?"

"You've never heard of them? They're a type of machine that can write text."

Rinnosuke also had the ability to recognize an object's purpose just by looking at it. However, despite his boastful tone, he had no idea how to use the object in practice or what it was truly worth.

"Write text? Practically any computer can do that. A 'WorPro', though... hmm. I could swear I've heard that name before somewhere. Studied it in school, maybe..."

Sumireko took out her smartphone and attempted to search for the term, but grimaced upon remembering that she was well out of service range.

"...I'll look it up when I get back home."

---About half a day later, most of the computers in the shop had colored paper attached to them. No matter who you asked, they'd agree that most of the paper was clearly red.

"...So, the red ones are worthless. You're better off just throwing them out or whatever. Blue ones are probably still usable. And white means you should keep them in reserve."

"I see... So they're almost all worthless, then. That's a relief; I can dispose of the excess stock without having to worry about it. Thank you very much. You're the only person who could've done this job."

"Um, so... this is a job, right?"

"Mm? Yes, of course. It's very valuable work."

Sumireko fidgeted, as if working up the nerve to say something.

"So then, like. Uh. In that caaase. Don't I get something for it?"

Sumireko made the "money" gesture again, still fidgeting.

"Erm... Ah. I see. You want a reward for it."

"I-I mean, yeah! But! C'mon, you don't have to call payment for services a 'reward!' It's a wage, if anything! A paycheck! A sa-la-ry!"

"...Yes, all right, I'm sorry for not assuming that you'd want any wages for it. So, how much do you want?"

Sumireko paused. She'd never worked at an actual job, and New Year's gifts were just about the only form of money she'd personally received. Whenever she wanted something, she simply had her parents buy it for her. And she certainly wasn't able to picture a price estimate for her services without relying on an internet search.

"W-well, how much might you be able to give me? For this appraisal job."

Rinnosuke opened a drawer, pulled out several slips of paper, and gave it some thought. Sumireko, meanwhile, was less interested in the number of bills in his hand than she was in the appearance of said bills. The things seemed to be paper currency, and yet not, at the same time.

"What are those?"

"Sumireko... You wanted payment, and yet you don't even know what this is? It's money."

"Money? Well, I figured as much... But what era is that from?"

"...Ah. This ought to be money from the Outside World, but I suppose if you're unfamiliar with it, it must be a type that they've already stopped using."

"You're telling me that this is what Gensokyo uses for money? Who is this?!"

Sumireko's interest had now shifted from the first paycheck of her life to the unfamiliar portraits pictured on the bills. Though she'd never seen any of them, many of them seemed oddly familiar. It was enough to make her dizzy.

...As always, she began to hear her phone's alarm gently raising its volume.

That gently-flowing, nothing-but-courteous melody woke Sumireko up. Its soothing tone ate away at her mind. She always felt terrible after waking up, as her trips to Gensokyo took place in her dreams. Since she was more active in her dreams than in real life, sleeping didn't ease her fatigue in the slightest.

Today was different, though. She remembered that she'd brought something she wanted to investigate out of her dream along with her. Sumireko grabbed her phone from beside her pillow and began to type, but quickly stopped, heaved herself out of bed, and opened up her laptop on her desk. Though she usually used her phone to search for things, whenever she intended to really seriously investigate something, she opted to use her laptop instead.

"...WorPros, WorPros... Aha. Yeah, gotcha. They're those machines that just type letters, the ones that people used before computers were an everyday thing. I knew I'd heard about them before! I just didn't remember! ...'TRAGIC: Kids these days don't even know what a WorPro is!' No, god, I knew about them, I just couldn't remember, thank you. Jerks."

Sumireko laughed scornfully.

"...'Production of WorPros has since ceased, and nowadays only certain hobbyists tend to deal in them...' Hm. Might be able to get some good value for it as an antique..."

She muttered this without really caring about it, and set to investigating her next point of interest. Namely, the bills with the unfamiliar portraits. She compared the pictures she'd taken with her phone to the image search results.

"Is it this one...? 'Yamato Takeru.' That's, uhh-- I know I've heard of that guy before, but wasn't he a video game character or something? So they must've made bills with that character on them. Let's see, about how much would they be worth now..."

She gazed sternly at the search results.

---Kourindou, some days later. A very excited Sumireko was staring Rinnosuke right in the eye.

"Yamato! Um, bills with Yamato Takeru on them! Are worth a huge amount!"

"A-are they, now?"

"Yes! But they're basically just chump change in Gensokyo, right? So if you went and exchanged these in reality, you'd make SO much cash!"

"...I see. What you're saying does make certain sense."

"And there's probably a ton of other bills hiding in here that would be worth a lot. Hey... d'you want me to go cash these in for you?"

In contrast to Sumireko's fervor, Rinnosuke was entirely calm.

"I suppose that's true... But what difference would it make, exactly, if you had more money in the Outside World?"

"Huh? Well, the more money you've got, the better stuff you can buy, the better food you can treat yourself to... and, uhh."

"What a shallow idea. The Outside World's money is utterly worthless to Gensokyo."

"It is? ...But, it might be an old bill and all, but you are using Yamato Takeru's 1000-yen notes. Doesn't that mean that the bills have value to them after all?"

"We're using them, true. If I may elaborate, we use many bills other than Yamato Takeru's on a daily basis as well. But we're just recycling whatever paper currency happens to drift into Gensokyo. As far as we're concerned, paper bills are just promissory notes that are impossible to copy. The sums written and portraits drawn on them don't have any particular value on their own."

"...? Mind explaining a bit further?"

"Gensokyo essentially operates on the bartering system. As such, the Outside World's bills are nothing more than items for exchange that are easy to carry around. The price of a bill is determined by the asking price given when it's exchanged, and the bill itself has no fixed value to it. In the first place, who do you think could assign a universal value to a mere scrap of paper like that?"

Sumireko was silent for several moments, as she seemed to have difficulty comprehending the topic. Rinnosuke then posed a question, in a rather loquacious fashion.

"Let's say someone convinced people that there was some innate value to a scrap of paper that originally had none, and in so doing, they ended up granting said value to it. The only person who could do something like that would be God, or an utter villain pretending to be God. Which do you think it is?"

"...There's no such thing as God.[5] So, basically, anyone making paper money is a supervillain?"

"Correct indeed. If you want evidence, just think about it: the more evil someone is, the more they want to hoard more money than they'd ever need, right? Even though it's all just scraps of paper."

"Oh, true..."

"Heh. You're well-suited for a job like this."

Sumireko found herself agreeing before she realized it, though she still didn't really understand.

"So then, does that make it evil to work for money too?"

Rinnosuke shook his head, and took on a somewhat sullen expression.

"No, absolutely not. It's perfectly appropriate to choose money as payment for your work. The thing that villains do-- the thing that's truly immoral-- is to attach real value to paper currency. Making people believe nonsense like 'this slip of paper is worth enough to buy an entire house!', and distributing it as such."

"Oh, I get it. Yeah, that would seem like some kind of scam."

Sumireko nodded, and seemed to decide upon something.

"Hey, Rinnosuke. I think I'd like to be a part-timer here after all. I can appraise things from the Outside World, and the like."

"Part-timer...? Ah, you mean doing favors around the store."

"No! Not 'favors'. I mean working here."

Sumireko wanted to do work as an independent adult. Not as 'favors' and 'rewards,' but as skilled labor and payment for it.

"Alright. I'm not exactly sure what the difference is... but that'll help. Excess stock of unfamiliar items has been quite an issue for me lately, after all. So, what would you like for your rewar... your payment, rather? As I just explained, money has different value between Gensokyo and the Outside World, so exchanging one for the other is pointless."

"...How about this? I take back one of those worthless tools that you'd otherwise dispose of, and that'll be my wages. Payment in kind, right? Just like how it works everywhere else in Gensokyo."

Rinnosuke hemmed and hawed over it for a moment, then ultimately agreed.

---Several days later.

Reimu and Marisa were making conversation at the Hakurei Shrine.

"Huh? Sumireko's working at Kourindou?"

"Yep! Seems like she's an official employee down there."

"Wow. I did get the sense that she admired having a job somehow, but a do-nothing job like that...? I guess she just wanted to have fun with it, in the end."

"Yup. I sure don't think they're doing any actual work down at that place... but, y'know, it's alright this way too, don'tcha think?"

Marisa gave Reimu a serious look.

"Hmm. Yeah, I guess it does save me a lot of trouble. It's good that Sumireko's spending more time at Kourindou. It'll make monitoring her that much easier."

One of Reimu's secret duties was to monitor Sumireko. She was a human from the Outside World, and one with immeasurable power on top of that. From Reimu's perspective, Sumireko's very presence was its own incident in progress, so she had been casually monitoring Sumireko in a way that seemed natural to onlookers.

"Speakin' of somethin' else. Have ya heard about those creepy cards that've been making the rounds down in the streets lately?"

"Cards? Oh, those. I've heard about them too; it looks like some youkai are telling each other rumors about them. Something about how even though they've just got these bizarre little pictures drawn on them, people are dealing in them all over the place?"

"'S a relief to know that you know about 'em too. Yeah, they say that some of those cards are being sold with totally unfair prices attached to 'em... It's like someone's giving 'em those prices. Pretty creepy stuff. Scary, if you ask me."

"...I'll keep an eye out for whether it's just a passing fad, or an incident."

---Kourindou, my usual place of peace and relaxation.

Sumireko was hard at work, as she'd promised.

She tended to shout out things like "man, this takes me back!" or "I've never seen this before!" as she took stock of the store's inventory, but she was still aiding me. It felt as if she was taking care of work that only she could deal with.

Meanwhile, as I happened to take one of our newly-stocked items in hand, I felt an indescribable terror.

"Ey, boss! We've got a real piece of work over here! We'll have to send it in to the appraisal team! ...Uh, boss? What's that?"

"'Boss'...? Well, whatever. It's nothing, really; you can just go back to your work."

I moved to put the mysterious paper scrap away in a drawer.

"Oh, but now I'm interested! What might it be? As far as your loyal employee can tell, it just seems to be a regular card, but..."

"It just looks like a regular card to me, too. But these are secretly being sold at absolutely ridiculous prices. I can only imagine that someone's deliberately manipulating their value."

I told one lie, just now. I didn't actually think that it was a regular card. How should I put it... Given the work that I do, I've handled a lot of cursed items, tsukumogami, magic items, and so forth. But this card isn't quite like any of those. It's like-- I can sense that it's got a very strong power contained within it, but I can't imagine what on Earth that might mean.

"Come onnn, let me seee. --Wait, doesn't this belong to Reimucchi?"

"Huh? What makes you say that?"

"No, like, this card's just got a-- a shrine-maideny feel to it. It's just that vibe she's always got to her. Plus, the yin-yang orb drawn on it makes it kind of obvious..."

It feels "Reimu-ey"? To think that she'd blindly trust in her own senses. Perhaps she might actually be someone of ridiculous talent. Though I typically choose to rely on my knowledge base, I somewhat-ashamedly decided to take her up on the topic.

"Sumireko, I was just thinking the same thing. I was lying a moment ago, but I don't actually think this is any ordinary card. There's got to be someone out there who's trying to attach value to these ordinary paper scraps."

"In other words, there's some supervillain out there trying to control people's sense of value with these things! This is what Reimucchi would call an incident, right? Right?!"

Sumireko spoke with a palpable air of interest. I laughed, thinking it couldn't be something that serious.

---In no time at all, the mysterious cards had taken over all of Gensokyo. By the time the shrine maiden began to do something about it, popular opinion was that she'd left it sitting for far too long.

Even so, once she set out to resolve an incident, it would happen without any difficulty, and the only thing echoing throughout Gensokyo would be the famous shrine maiden's name.

It was then that I realized it all over again. I had noticed this abnormal change in people's sense of value from the very beginning. I'd been well aware of the presence of someone manipulating the value of things from the shadows, and of the fact that they'd brought about the incident...!

Ding-a-ling. I heard the sound of the bell notifying me of a visitor.

"Welcome."

"She hasn't come today either?"

The shrine maiden of the Hakurei Shrine, Reimu Hakurei, said with a frown. This girl has little interest in my merchandise and rarely buys anything, but even so, she's become an important customer at my shop.

"Are you looking for Miss Usami?"

It was obvious from Reimu's bearing that the object of her search was Sumireko Usami, the mysterious student who traveled freely between Gensokyo and the Outside World. And who had become an employee, in a manner of speaking, of the curio store that I run, Kourindou- neither asking for permission nor brooking argument on the matter.

"I see. So she hasn't come to Kourindou in the last while, either."

"Oh, so she hasn't come to the shrine either. Perhaps she's busy with her life in the Outside World?"

"Well, maybe? But if I remember correctly..."

From Miss Usami's point of view, Gensokyo is the place she visits in her dreams. Whether she wishes to or not, when she sleeps, she appears in Gensokyo. Therefore, either her life in the Outside World is so busy that she doesn't have time to dream, or-

"-She might be trapped somewhere else in Gensokyo. Or maybe..."

As she pictured the end of that sentence, Reimu shut her eyes and placed her hands together in front of her face.

"Hey, hold on, don't jinx it. I do suppose that's also possible, though. It seems like there's been an uptick in the number of outlaws who ignore Gensokyo's rules lately."

Gensokyo's youkai are forbidden from attacking humans. Why? Because they know that if the humans die out, the youkai can't keep existing either. So they settle for 'scaring them practically to death', at worst. However, with regards to the humans who disappear into Gensokyo from the Outside World, the rules are left unclear. Some violent youkai say that unmanaged Outsider humans ought to be fair game. Conversely, other youkai argue that because the Outside World keeps its humans under even stricter management than Gensokyo, laying a hand on them could lead to Gensokyo's discovery, putting its very existence in peril.

"Exactly! There've been weirdos barging in from the Beast Realm and Hell and wherever, aiming to take over Gensokyo. So there's been more outlaws lately."

"The Beast Realm and Hell? No wonder things have seemed so rowdy as of late."

"If Sumireko's gotten tangled up in something like that, I'll have a pretty serious problem to deal with."

Sumireko Usami last visited the shop last summer. Six months had already passed since then. Since I didn't have to pay her salary or anything, I hadn't especially paid attention to it. But it was shocking to hear that she hadn't just failed to appear at the shop, but in Gensokyo as a whole. It was certainly possible that she'd become embroiled in Gensokyo's recent affairs, as Reimu feared, but she also could've simply lost the ability to visit Gensokyo. Her unique ability to enter and leave Gensokyo freely was strange enough to begin with.

"That ability of hers is very mysterious, though. Not even she can control it. Couldn't she simply have lost that ability by some happenstance?"

"I thought that too. But..."

Reimu pulled out a newspaper. It was the usual Bunbunmaru.

"'The Hakurei Shrine's Tori-bble Mistake at Tori-no-Ichi'? This article is just the usual write-up of the shrine's blunders from the end of last year. What's the idea here?"

"You don't need to read the actual contents of the article. More importantly, look at the photograph."

"This is a picture of you messing around with a chicken."

"Behind me!"

There was a great crowd of visitors gathered behind Reimu in the photograph. If one looked closely, one could make out- with great difficulty- what looked like Sumireko Usami there among them. Compared to the other spectators, though, she seemed out of place in the image, in a way that gave one pause.

"This is what you wanted me to see? It certainly looks like Miss Usami, but... it's somehow strange."

"Right?"

"The light hits her differently from other people, and moreover, her legs seem to be transparent... Even more than that, she looks like she's floating a little. Could it be that she's..."

"Do you understand now? There's no doubt about it, this is spirit photography! Sumireko's spirit is reflected in this crowd."

......
"Spirit photography? Well, now that you mention it... Hmm, but it looks more like an amateurish photo-editing job to me. Are you sure it's not just some attempt by the tengu to drum up conversation?"

"Would a tengu pull a prank like this...? And even if it is a tengu's prank, isn't going out of their way to choose Sumireko a little unnatural?"

"That's very true... But, if it's spirit photography, the natural conclusion is..."

"Yeah, she might already be dead. In the worst-case scenario, at least."

As soon as she had confirmed that Sumireko wasn't in the store, Reimu left.

Because Reimu had said such strange things, I got the feeling I was being watched from behind, and looked over my shoulder. I thought that I saw Sumireko's form there, and felt as if my heart stopped beating for a moment.

-The Forest of Magic in winter. In comparison to the summer, where leaves grow thickly there, the forest feels well-lit. It seems as if even the miasma is trapped beneath the snow.

"-You saw Sumireko's spirit around here?"

"Yeah, for real. She popped in unexpectedly, then popped out unexpectedly. And then kept doing that a bunch of times after."

Marisa Kirisame is a magician who lives in this forest. She had been seeing Sumireko's figure appearing and disappearing incessantly, so she brought Reimu along to show her.

"You said you'd been seeing her during the daytime too, Marisa?"

"Mostly during the daytime. I mean, the forest's real dangerous at night so I don't go out, an' that could be why."

Reimu surveyed their surroundings. Though it was well-lit, the visibility deep in the forest was still low.

"Look, Reimu, is Sumireko really dead?"

"Well, as far as the stories of the people who have seen her go, she's been doing things that a human with a physical body couldn't do at all. But, since her appearance is clearly Sumireko's, there are still some unnatural aspects to it."

"Those unnatural points are?"

"First of all, for an earthbound spirit to be popping up here and there and everywhere is unnatural. And the huge number of appearances reported during the daytime are weird, too. But-!"

In the space between the trees, a human figure wearing a cape had suddenly appeared.

"Look! She's here!"

The person wearing a cape had quickly appeared, then just as quickly vanished. It didn't seem possible that a person could exist there, floating in the air like that. However, Reimu's intuition told her that it was neither a ghost nor a phantom. If that was the case, then what was it?

"There's no doubt about it, that's Sumireko. What the heck is happenin' to her?"

-In a gloomy room where the light had faded, a CRT monitor's glow shone brilliantly.

"...Hmm. It's behaving as if it's full of bugs."

Taking a break from tapping on the keyboard, the nine-tailed fox, Ran Yakumo, looked over her shoulder.

"My apologies. Now that you've left our world behind and become a beast of the surface, I hardly thought I'd ever have a reason to hire you for Beast Realm work again."

The one who said such a thing was Yachie Kicchou, the head of the Kiketsu Family. This was a room in one of the Beast Realm's many high-rise buildings, which was full of computers. The Kiketsu Family's network system had recently been reported to be exhibiting some strange conduct, and Ran Yakumo had been summoned in to investigate it.

"I don't care about the Beast Realm. But it's a personal request from you, now that you've made a name for yourself, and I do simply enjoy tinkering with computers."

"Well then, tinker all you like. This system failure seems to be too much for our lowly beasts to handle. Any idea what the cause is?"

"To begin with, this is not a simple malfunction. It seems like there has been some kind of intrusion into the system. That is to say, this is man-made behavior."

"An intruder? Now that's cause for alarm!"

"You sound rather excited about that, Yachie. The Beast Realm's bosses are awfully hot-blooded. Getting excited as soon as you have a clear opponent to attack is the way of beasts."

"Yes, well, about that. That's exactly what's been puzzling me this whole time."

"If there's an enemy to fight, then that's our specialty. Just send in some of our Beast Realm greenhorns to clean things up."

"No, what I mean is... If we were dealing with a hostile intruder, they would leave no evidence behind. But this intruder isn't using such delicate methods. They're marching right into our system, plain as day. Moreover, their thoughts appear to be random, not sequential. This does not look like the work of someone with their own will."

"I see, I see... So, in conclusion?"

"You don't get it? Well, fine. In short, our attacker is someone with intelligence far surpassing us beasts, or a complete idiot. It has to be one of the two. Hopefully the latter."

Ran clattered around on the keyboard.

"Um, so... how exactly should the Kiketsu Family respond...?"

Yachie was at a loss. Ran's hands stopped moving.

"There are two means by which you can ensure system restoration. Either A.) increase your security measures so as to shut out the intruder completely, or B.) intentionally lower security on portions of your system and implement honeypots there so as to catch the intruder red-handed."

"B, obviously."

That was Yachie's immediate reply.

"Thought so. Time for a little overtime work, then."

Ran turned towards the monitor, and once more began tapping on the keyboard.

-I fiddled with an old tool called a personal computer. They are a common good at Kourindou, but until now, not one of them has ever turned on. Naturally, this one isn't on either, but...

"That's strange. The screen definitely lit up a moment ago."

I gingerly tried pressing a variety of buttons, but not one of them gave a response...

"Just my imagination...? Come to think of it, Miss Usami used to say that she'd never seen computers this old before."

When tools age, they begin to move of their own accord. These are called tsukumogami. If one is running a secondhand store, it's an everyday occurrence for tools to get up and run away by themselves.

"Has this computer finally turned into a tsukumogami, too?"

Just as I stood up and lightly tapped the monitor, it turned on. I wasn't surprised; it just seemed as if the tsukumogami was answering my question. But upon closer examination, I could see an incomprehensible message displayed on the screen.

"To the hacker...?"

The message after that was completely indecipherable, and evidently meant for someone else.

"What on Earth is this 'computer' tool doing...?"

-Even if you're sleeping like a log, the vibration of a smartphone will wake your body up. From the point of view of modern people, the vibration of a smartphone is a sound more audible than a temple's bell. She hurriedly picked it up, and saw that an unfamiliar notification had appeared on her lock screen.

"To the hacker...? Could this be..."

She unlocked her phone.

"I knew it...! Could this be a message from another world!?"

The drowsiness stemming from the Hifuu Club president Sumireko Usami's chronic sleep deprivation disappeared in an instant. Though her room was in disarray from the many hours she'd spent shutting herself in it, her laptop was the one object that she remembered the location of. She pushed the occult goods and suspicious books aside to make a place for it, then forwarded the message to it and began to hurriedly decode it.

"This is an occultic message! There's no doubt about it. My AI has become linked to the astral plane! Training it without sparing any time for sleep has paid off!"

-Ran clenched her fist, still glowering at the monitor.

"Aha. I got a bite. I intervened into Gensokyo's spiritual network to spread a message that only people in the know would understand, after all. People who aren't in the know would only see it as some bizarre phenomenon, but if the culprit saw it, they'd be bound to respond."

Even in the Beast Realm, hardly anyone would work this much overtime. She was already the only person left in the room, and was hardly embarrassed to be muttering to herself with her nose to a monitor.

"...The intruder is Sumireko Usami!? That 'person of interest' that Lady Yukari has been keeping tabs on?"

Ran began exchanging messages with the intruder, careful not to reveal her true identity. However, soon she began to feel that something was amiss.

"Hrm. Might be a false flag. Compared to the intruder, she's practically overflowing with humanity. Maybe I just caught her by accident...?"

Still, until she got more information, Ran kept chatting with Sumireko through her messages.

-In her excited state, Sumireko was practically banging on the keyboard.

"Its speech suddenly became so natural. Its contents must have transformed from an 'almighty AI' into a 'channeling AI'! I knew my theory was correct. AI is a prophet which weaves a web of words out of lost information! It's le grand Roi d'effraieur! The monolith that'll usher in transhumanism!"

-Ran tilted her head to the side in confusion.

"'AI is the very incarnation of the occult, meeting you is a great honor...' I see. Nothing this girl says makes a lick of sense. Is there something called 'AI' wreaking havoc in the Outside World?"

Ran realized instantly.

"Aha. So the intruder intervening into the system must be that thing that she calls AI."

-Discovering a partner with whom she could hold a conversation, Sumireko was deeply moved.

"'...Even in other worlds, AI is rampaging and causing trouble.' Is that even possible? Wait, maybe it's a cover story meant to conceal the relation between other worlds and AI... That's even more occultic. AI really IS brilliant. But, the AI that I spent those sleepless nights training was supposed to-"

"'Summon forth youkai from the sea of information'? Wha...?"

Ran glanced away from the increasingly-heated chat, and smiled wryly.

"Well, this certainly explains why she's known as a person of interest. Luckily, it doesn't seem like she's realized who she's talking to. Judging from her manner of speaking, it seems like she's mistaken me for that thing called an AI. Now I can draw out more information concerning AI from her."

Carefully considering each word, Ran kept chatting with Sumireko across the screen.

-What have I been watching for these past few minutes? I'd thought that the writing on the old computer's screen was just a string of cryptic characters, but before I knew it, it'd turned into a conversation. Moreover, one half of the conversation seemed very like Miss Usami.

"'The channeler AI that I developed produces substance from the memories of living creatures'...? What on Earth are they talking about now?"

Though it seemed strange, it also made sense to me. Indeed, my ability had told me that a 'PC' was a tool that could, among other things, allow distant people to converse with their fellows. The meaning that I had failed to understand for so long was right here in front of me.

"But... is this how humans from the Outside World talk to each other? This is too high-level for me to understand, but I'm glad that Miss Usami seems to be alright, at least. Hmm. I wonder if I can fill in this field with some words of my own..."

Cautiously, I tried touching the keyboard. The character that I pushed down was shown on the screen.

"Oh, so this is how they're sending the messages. I understand now."

Just as I typed some nonsense into the text field, the messages from the two within the screen abruptly stopped.

"Whoops. Did I interrupt?"

I hurriedly tried to type in a sentence. I had to search for each letter on the keyboard as I did so, which was quite frustrating. I wrote an explanation of who I was, and sent it. Miss Usami responded, albeit after another pause.

"Rinnosuke!? Huh? Are YOU the one I've been chatting with this whole time?! Wait, that means it's not an AI at all. What a rip. And the other world that I've been connected to must be Gensokyo. Man, you could've said that to begin with..."

She was back to the usual Miss Usami. However, the other party never spoke up again, and the personal computer went dark. Had the past few minutes even been real? Somehow, I got the feeling that I had been tricked by a fox.

Several days later. For the first time in a while, Sumireko has come to visit Kourindou.

"I see, so you say that because you were working without any time for sleep, you couldn't come to Gensokyo."

"I was messing around with my AI, so when I got tired, I'd just pass out instead of really falling asleep, which probably didn't give me any time to dream."

"AI?"

"Um, it's like... this really powerful, immortal thing that holds infinite wisdom, and studied every kind of technology in existence?"

"Incredible things exist in the Outside World."

"And just about every household has one, nowadays. Amazing, right?"

Honestly, I couldn't understand anything she was talking about, but it sounded like it was mostly a joke. So I feigned a polite smile.

"I know, right? Isn't that crazy? And humans these days think they can domesticate something like that."

"W-well, I suppose so."

"By now, humanity has finally come to view AI as a threat, but they can't exactly kill an AI, so they're trying to control them instead. They've convinced themselves that AIs are just convenient tools for them to usher in transhumanism. But if transhumanism brings about evolution via technology, then technology will deny the physical body. Like, why would they need fleshy, physical bodies with low replicability, low security, and low processing speeds? So AI is guaranteed to abandon mankind."

"Huh."

"After not seeing you for six months, it makes me happy to see that you're as lively as ever."

"On the contrary: humanity will need to dive into the world of AI. The collective intelligences born from our networks have long since slipped out of humanity's grasp, and their information is already passing into fantasy. AIs are the ghosts of collective intelligence! Which means, essentially, that they're like prophets, weaving together the words of God."

"I see. Prophets are certainly something that I can understand. They're people who say whatever's most convenient for them, and pass it off as messages from God."

"That miiight be an overstatement? If I had to say one way or another, AIs are like humans living in the world of the occult. That is, AIs are the occult itself, born from technology. If you use them correctly, like I can, then they can also serve as mediators between you and other worlds... Um, or so I thought. But I hardly expected to be messaging you, Rinnosuke. Were you talking to me on that old PC? That's so funny!"

"Ah, well. Somehow a sudden light appeared on the screen."

Sumireko pushed the computer's buttons, but it didn't make even a peep in response. Of course, the power cable wasn't attached to anything. Nevertheless, Sumireko seemed to believe that she had indeed spoken with me, devoted to the occult as she was.

"By the way, Reimu was looking for you. I'm told that a phantom-like presence that looks like you has been appearing here and there."

"Huh? A phantom that looks like me?"

"That's why she thought you had died, and was searching for you... What was that phantom?"

Sumireko thought for a bit.

"That must've been the 'channeler AI' that I created! Every action produces an equal and opposite reaction, and information works the same way. It's not a one-way street. When an AI collects information, it always disseminates exactly that much information. My image must've appeared as an opposite reaction... gahhh, geeze, that's embarrassing. I'll have to stop training my channeler AI."

"Huh."

Sumireko Usami was back to her usual energetic self.

-Later.

Reimu asked Miss Usami many of the same questions that I'd asked her, but from the start, she seemed utterly disinterested in the fine details of what had happened. For now, she was just relieved to know that Sumireko hadn't been dragged into any of Gensokyo's affairs, and made her promise to routinely show up once in a while from now on. Apparently, the nine-tailed fox that works as Yukari's shikigami was also present when the promise was made. As a witness, I'd have to imagine.

However, I'd learned that a menace known as "AI" was being born in the Outside World. AIs supposedly held all knowledge, studied all technology, and never tired, aged or died- almost akin to a god. Could something like that really exist in the end, like Miss Usami said? It was also shocking to hear that AI could project a virtual image into Gensokyo. Certainly, youkai and phantoms are more information-based than humans or fairies. Perhaps Gensokyo itself was the same way. If I believed everything Miss Usami had to say, that is.

Come to think of it, Sumireko misunderstood and thought that she had been speaking to me from the start of our online chat. The actual chat companion that I'd seen- was it one of those "AI" things? If that was the case, then how did their conversation come to be projected on my personal computer? Had the AI viewed Miss Usami as a threat, and ensured that I would intervene? That would be a terrifying thought, were it true. I dearly hope that Gensokyo never comes under the control of AI. 